With timestamps:

00:02 - So hello, thank you for being here especially so early
00:05 - I know it's early in the morning and I appreciate you coming waking up and coming to this weird talk had a Python conference
00:12 - so emotional intelligence for engineers
00:15 - So, oh, no just the elephant in the room. This is a Python conference. So who's this lady?
00:20 - And why is she here to talk to us about our feelings?
00:23 - well, I'm glad you asked so I
00:26 - Hypothetically, so my name is April Wenzel, and I'm a software engineer and I have been for the past decade
00:32 - I worked in a number of different
00:34 - Startups in Silicon Valley and I've led engineering teams including some using Python for some interesting stuff in machine learning to detect autism the kids
00:42 - Do other things with Python pigs and Python and as far as why I'm here
00:47 - So every talk at this conference is really about how to become a more effective developer
00:51 - And I think that this talk is no different because I truly believe that emotional intelligence
00:55 - It's key to becoming the most effective developer that you can be
00:59 - Also, I know that the Python community is a big fan of inclusion, especially in recent years
01:04 - And so emotional intelligence is key to creating inclusive environments
01:09 - So learn more about me I come from San Diego. I took this picture the day before I left
01:14 - It's all this water coming from the sky. Is there any foreign to me, but I'm trying to make do other than that
01:20 - I'm very much enjoying your city
01:22 - So I just tried to slice the sunflower cafe a recommendation from Justin Hoover and it was delicious. This is all vegan
01:29 - It's a barbecue sandwich and you can see the casserole. Just amazing. So very very happy to be here in your city
01:37 - Ok, so I want to go over the plan for this talk
01:38 - I'm gonna talk about what emotional intelligence is why you should care about it
01:43 - I'm gonna focus a lot of time on that cuz I think it's important and how you develop it
01:48 - So my company is called compassionate coding and I do workshops on emotional intelligence for engineers
01:54 - But before all that I used to be kind of jerk
01:58 - I have detailed my jerk days in this blog post
02:02 - Which has actually gotten some attention online
02:05 - Including some attention on reddit where people are not always the most emotionally intelligent in their communication
02:10 - So I got some interesting jerky comments autopost about being a jerk
02:13 - But that's okay because that none of them are his jerky is leaves that I am to myself
02:17 - so, but anyway in this post I talk about how I used to be very
02:21 - Focused on just the technical side
02:23 - I thought okay if I'm perfectly
02:25 - Logical and rational because of course I am right and programmer then I don't have to worry about other people's emotions. That's their problem
02:32 - They're offended by what I say. That's their problem. I also you know, so I was so totally focused on that
02:38 - I have very not emotionally intelligent
02:41 - actively anti emotionally intelligent
02:43 - so I've mentioned this because to all the any of the negative nancies or Nettie's in the audience who are thinking
02:48 - This is a stupid soft talk
02:50 - I assume there probably aren't that many of you because you chose to be here, but if you came just to heckle I
02:56 - Encourage it, but let's save it to the end. So that bless distracting for everyone else
03:01 - but yes, so if you are feeling that skeptical I
03:05 - Understand I have deep empathy for you because I also would have made fun of this talk and thought it was silly
03:10 - so please bear with me so the one exception to the not heckling is
03:16 - I'm trying to avoid using guys for mixed gender groups. So
03:22 - This I would say this is not a picture of guys. This photo comes from this great site
03:27 - Women in women of color and type attack calm we can access stuff that is done at women in color tech
03:33 - I would also say that this is not a group of there is
03:38 - Also, not a group of ladies
03:39 - So I'm gonna try to use these terms folks everybody everyone people all in because in the south and from Texas y'all
03:46 - friends a team
03:48 - so if you hear me say
03:49 - guys when I'm referring to a mixed gender group or a group of unknown gender then just raise your hand and
03:55 - Because I want to get better. So thank you for helping me out with that
03:59 - So those feel intelligence what is it?
04:02 - I'd like to talk about what it's not
04:04 - So it's not just being fake. It's not just being nice. It is not ignoring logic and reason
04:12 - This is I thought this is a really cool picture. It supposed to be a Rubik's Cube then destroy itself
04:16 - We're not destroying or forgetting logic and reason it's not sugar coating
04:20 - So this is what I used to think it was
04:22 - And that's why I hated it so much because I was like we should just be too to each other
04:25 - We shouldn't be sugarcoating and it turns out it's not sugarcoating. So steady clear
04:29 - It's not that it also doesn't mean being an extrovert or a social butterfly
04:34 - I get that sometimes where people think well, I'm an introvert. I'm an introvert
04:37 - Okay, and I am definitely by no means a social butterfly and I still think you're able to build emotional intelligence
04:44 - So it's not that
04:47 - It's also not being completely ruled and dominated by, you know, your emotions your unbridled and bridled emotions. I
04:55 - Posted about giving this talk on LinkedIn and some honked and also gets get some interesting trolls
05:00 - but somebody comments it and they're like
05:02 - you know ya motions are great and all but we don't want to be
05:05 - But it's important to you know to keep them in check and I'm like that's what emotional intelligence is about
05:09 - So why would you anyway so it's not being ruled by your emotions?
05:12 - Emotional intelligence is the ability to understand and manage emotions
05:16 - Which I'm using the word emotion in it, so it's not a great definition. So to go give more specifics
05:23 - these are some of the examples of
05:26 - aspects of emotional intelligence
05:28 - self-awareness
05:29 - confidence empathy achievement collaboration motivation resilience conflict management
05:36 - Ton of other things, but those that's the kind of them genre they're talking about
05:41 - You may know them by the term soft skills
05:44 - this is the term that I hate and I very rarely use the word hate because I think it adds a lot of negativity the
05:49 - World, but I'm using it here because I feel that's dispassionately about it. I hate the word soft skills. What?
05:55 - Because one softness it's has become associated with weakness in our culture
05:59 - So we say things like he's gone soft to me and you know, he's gotten weak or something like that
06:03 - I also think it's weirdly associated just with women. So in the early 90s, there were these commercials
06:10 - Come see the softer side of Sears and it was when Sears introduced in addition to the hardware that they were selling
06:16 - Accessories and clothing for women and it's not that soft skills being associated with women is bad because women are bad
06:23 - but rather because it's a limited view and I think soft skills quote our
06:28 - Emotional intelligence really is for everyone. Not just women not just people you know who identify with their femininity. It's really for everyone
06:36 - to illustrate this I had I this example was gifted to me by the universe because when I was on my way to another
06:45 - Conference where I was getting this talk, I stepped onto an airport shuttle and they were talking about the Super Bowl
06:51 - and they were talking about Doug Peterson who I guess is the coach of the Eagles and since they wanna cut this slide in if
06:56 - They have lost he was taking it out, but they said Doug Peterson really has emotional intelligence
07:01 - He recognized that word but that turnaround is so excited
07:05 - he recognizes that football is not just a tactical game but a psychological game and
07:10 - I was just like yes, if emotional intelligence is associated football then how can we possibly call it a soft skill so soft skill so
07:19 - Please stop calling them soft skills, please. Please, please
07:21 - Please also call the people skills because people skills has become
07:26 - The punchline of jokes. So this is from the movie office space and the people who have come to do layoffs
07:31 - Ask him ask this guy what his job is I just got a bit of Dom
07:39 - So they asked me what he does and he mentions that he
07:41 - takes
07:42 - requirements from the customer and takes them to the engineers and he it says maybe they acts like confused and I have people skills and
07:49 - So it's you know people skills. It's easy to make fun of because it's become kind of cliched coentrão
07:54 - So instead I recommend that we use this term catalytic skills
07:59 - Now this comes from a talk that I saw by Daniel Goleman
08:04 - He was getting a talk at Google and you can watch it on YouTube this link
08:08 - And he says he calls them catalytic skills because they help us
08:12 - Catalyzed our technical skills meaning to help us acquire new technical skills and apply them more effectively
08:18 - So so I think I would love it. If we ditch the term Sox Bill Vol together call them catalytic skills
08:25 - Ok
08:26 - So why should you care about any of this?
08:29 - So let's talk about why software projects fail. So this data this is a subset of reasons that
08:36 - Project software projects fail they the application developer developer's Alliance surveyed
08:42 - 850 software developers smoked each group, but
08:46 - Whatever somewhere to start from and here's some of the reasons that they gave so the ones in blue
08:51 - You'll see changing or poorly documented requirements poor team organizational management developer churn or loss of key talent. These are all
09:00 - things that would benefit from
09:02 - emotional intelligence the way on the end
09:04 - Not insignificant, but less than the others you have immature dev tools and application platforms
09:10 - but I feel like a lot of the discourse in tech is around how to optimize the dev tools and application platforms and
09:16 - Really? That's not not my software projects are failing. I mean some of them are that's one reason but
09:21 - Largely, it's it's more on the human side that our projects are failing
09:26 - And you can read more and that's very clear
09:29 - Another study so they the in 1994 but it's still highly relevant. You still haven't fixed it
09:35 - There's this paper that came out the essential competencies of software engineers, and there's very tiny table that's not important to you
09:42 - All right now, but you can access the paper there. And again, I'm gonna put these slides up
09:47 - But the top three how much of the tea is the palest that are that
09:51 - Exceptional software engineers are team oriented they seek help and they help others Wow. Okay, so that those are all aspects of emotional intelligence
10:01 - Another reason you should care. So it seems like every week there's a new article about burnout in tech
10:06 - I've also written one which is accessible there. And I think that's because
10:11 - burnout really happens when we're not able to control our
10:15 - Responses to situations and when we feel a kind of powerless and emotional intelligence can really help with that
10:21 - So I know we like to think I certainly used to think that I came to work and I shut off my emotions
10:27 - I'm completely rational completely logical. You know, I'm just debating issues using you know, pure reason and
10:33 - It's just not true
10:35 - So I hate to break it to you. You're not a robot. You're not none of you
10:39 - You're human being and every single human being has emotions
10:43 - every single one
10:46 - Apple CEO Tim Cook in a commencement address last year said I'm not worried about artificial intelligence
10:52 - Giving computers the ability to think like humans. I'm more concerned about people thinking like computers
10:57 - So even if we could think like robots it wouldn't be a good idea
11:00 - Because we're humans and we need to to care about each other
11:04 - So as a software engineer here are some of the things that you do on a daily basis
11:08 - potentially that could benefit from emotional intelligence if you think effective feedback and code reviews naming variables is
11:15 - Really benefits from empathy designing api's also benefits from empathy which is an aspect of emotional intelligence
11:22 - Negotiating with designers or product managers rallying support for a new tool quick story there
11:27 - I was at a company and we were using a remote
11:31 - conferencing tool called sakoku
11:33 - And the quality was really bad and it was just it was always crashing because of how big our team was
11:38 - So some of us that suggested we use zoom and we did this we prepared this very logical document
11:44 - spreadsheet comparing the pros and cons and we you know trying to rally support and
11:48 - Everyone was so emotional about it and it turned out that it wasn't because of the pros and cons, you know
11:53 - They weren't convincing because the people who like to poco so much felt that it helped them feel more a lot. They
12:00 - contributed to their sense of belonging on the team because it had this like these little
12:05 - Office pictures of little offices like a virtual office and for some reason they had they had grown
12:11 - Emotionally attached to this tool and so their response was so emotional because of that so it was hard
12:17 - So we need to elevate the conversation from just a purely rational level to really address it on a human level
12:23 - So even rallying support for a new tool a new framework in benefit from emotional intelligence
12:27 - Also being able to motivate yourself to learn new skills
12:30 - interviewing candidates
12:32 - Definitely a big one here to be able to put people at ease into not rule out people unfairly
12:38 - Through your interview style and also to mentor new hires. I
12:43 - Would also suggest that the agile manifesto is a way of layering emotional intelligence on to software development
12:49 - So I went through all of the principles of the agile manifesto and called out which elements of emotional intelligence each one addresses
12:55 - So here's just one example
12:57 - So one of the principles is we both know changing requirements even late in development
13:01 - Agile processes harness change for the customers competitive advantage in this because the empathy service service orientation
13:09 - adaptability
13:10 - Optimism and initiative which are all aspects little intelligence
13:15 - so Jerry Weinberg wrote this great book the psychology of computer programming in the early 70s and
13:21 - He said it is possible to be too smart for programming if the person is not smart enough to use this intelligence
13:27 - To modify the social behavior and methods of conversation
13:29 - I thought it is a nice quote and it was the 70s which is why it uses his but I
13:36 - Want it to the percentage of with fidelity's there? Ok?
13:39 - There are also some personal benefits many personal benefits to growing emotional intelligence. It helps reduce your stress improves productivity
13:47 - helps you with better relationships
13:49 - Increases your happiness and I know a citation needed
13:52 - so we've visit the greater good science center at UC Berkeley's website because they have tons of
14:00 - Research backs studies on this so that's why I have new citation for each one
14:04 - You can do your research take my word for it, or you can decide I've decided that I don't necessarily need
14:10 - Absolute proof of something working before I'm willing to experiment it if it has, you know a low investment
14:14 - So I've also seen these in my own life
14:18 - Okay, so assuming now that you're at least somewhat interested developing your emotional intelligence. Let's talk about how to do it
14:26 - So I like to use a metaphor. That's not unfamiliar to people intent
14:29 - So hopefully most of you are familiar with the idea of being on call I saw so we're the past day
14:35 - There's been like a lot of discussion on Twitter. People are debating on call
14:37 - I haven't really been following it, but they're apparently, you know, most people understand this idea of being on call
14:42 - But just to make it clear
14:44 - So if you if your site goes down or if there's something there's some kind of problem on your app or your website
14:51 - somebody will get a notification probably not on an actual device like this anymore, but
14:57 - that's you know, you're on call so
15:00 - Being a human it's kind of like being on call all the time and you're distressing emotions are like alerts and similar
15:08 - similarly to how
15:10 - When you don't deal with an alert properly
15:13 - on your system
15:16 - It's similar to when you do that as a human
15:19 - Disaster strikes. So what does it look like if you don't handle your remote channel alerts properly?
15:25 - well, Daniel Goldman says out of control emotions can make smart people stupid and
15:30 - What he means by that are some examples you might if you're over if you're very emotional about something
15:37 - What you might do is send an email that you later regret I may or may not have done this in the past
15:42 - You may send a slack message. That isn't particularly kind you may you know, yell at somebody and say something that you regret
15:50 - You also just may be so distracted by how angry you are that you're not productive
15:55 - It's like so this is why it's helpful to be able to manage your distressing emotions
15:59 - And this is just one aspect of emotional intelligence, but I feel like it illustrates the bigger picture here
16:04 - So that's the one we're gonna focus on
16:06 - So I'd like to present to you an emotional incident runbook so similar to how when there's an alert on your system
16:12 - Sometimes you'll have some kind of runbook you might call it a playbook and it's a list of things that you can do to help
16:17 - troubleshoot the site
16:18 - so maybe it's you know where to look in the logs to see if something's broken or
16:22 - You know who to contact about this near that or what to look for in the database or whatever. It may be to troubleshoot
16:27 - so I'm gonna do that but for your emotional incidents
16:31 - So here's the process I'd like to present
16:34 - Which is slowing down
16:36 - Tending to your needs
16:37 - Offering empathy and proceeding calmly these are steps. You can take whenever you find yourself in the middle of an emotional incident
16:45 - The spells out stop which is nice
16:49 - Easy to remember so we'll go through each one in turn
16:53 - The first one is slow down
16:55 - Which is a bit ironic. It's I'm a fast talker and I'm saying slow down, but it's very important
17:01 - so I took a meditation class a few years ago and
17:05 - The instructor was talking about how our anxious mind is kind of like a jar of water
17:11 - That's full of sediment that's been shaken up and all of our anxious thoughts are like the sediment and that
17:16 - Meditation or just slowing down in an informal way?
17:20 - Allows the sediment or the anxious thoughts to settle so that we have clarity
17:24 - in the jar meaning you can see through the water but also
17:28 - Metaphorically in your mind you have more clarity about your situation. That's why it's so important
17:33 - True story. I dropped that meditation class after the laughs
17:36 - I thought it was moving too slowly and I thought I'd be remiss and get it faster
17:40 - So I had a lot to learn but I think I've made some progress since then
17:44 - So the next I was tending to your needs
17:46 - So what are beads what I'm even in Venice?
17:48 - So here are some examples of needs they come from a book called nonviolent communication by Marshall Rosenberg highly recommend this book
17:55 - So we have basic means like shelter arrest food safety
17:58 - We also have me it's like autonomy creativity meaning love respect trust closeness community fun
18:05 - Laughter beauty order. Peace
18:08 - So most time you have spiritual needs
18:10 - These are examples of needs that meet we could be experiencing and they definitely affect our emotional responses
18:16 - So the empathy piece is trying to understand what the other person is feeling
18:20 - Valuing and eating so you slow down
18:23 - You understand your needs you tend to them?
18:26 - If you can first you understand what the other person is feeling and then you proceed calmly
18:30 - With what you've decided based on all that information
18:33 - so I'd like to walk through an example just because that really helped and
18:36 - This may be difficult to read so I'm going to read it out
18:39 - It's actually difficult for me to read on here so quick. You look closer
18:42 - But yeah, so here's an example of an exchange between two developers and please imagine them as whatever gender you would like
18:49 - I tried to use names that are commonly used for multiple genders. So
18:54 - the first one says
18:56 - Alex I saw that you set the points on a story by yourself again, we're supposed to vote as a team now
19:01 - They're discussing an issue tracker where you set points on a story like in them an agile software development
19:06 - The other developer says I never agreed to that the story was just a quick task. What does it matter?
19:12 - We have a process in place and we're supposed to stick to it. You always do that bring up process
19:17 - We waste so much time talking about process
19:19 - I just want to get things done and you're always being reckless and breaking things
19:23 - We have processes in place for a reason if you can't stick to them. Maybe you shouldn't be on the team
19:27 - Yeah, maybe I shouldn't well, okay that escalated quickly. So this is what happens when we don't apply emotional intelligence
19:34 - we think we're having a perfectly rational rational debate about process and this and that but you can tell people's emotions are definitely
19:42 - Involved here, even if what they're saying
19:44 - You know may just be could be potentially just raffle
19:49 - so
19:50 - Let's walk through the steps to slow down. So the first is you know
19:54 - just because you see something that bothered to you don't just immediately jump in and try to
19:58 - Criticize someone or tell them why they're wrong, right? So let's take a step back and try to unwind this a bit. Ok, so
20:03 - Morgan sees that Alex have set the story point without consulting the team
20:09 - Okay. So what is it likely that Morgan values in this situation? I would say that Morgan values order
20:17 - Organization structure process. Why does this person value these things? Well, I would imagine it's because
20:25 - Morgan would like santaville deliver value to the customers in organized and productive efficient way, so
20:32 - What is Alex value in this situation? It seems to me like
20:36 - Alex values moving quickly
20:39 - not getting weighed down by excessive process and
20:43 - Why would Alex value that well?
20:45 - probably because Alex would like to deliver value to the customer efficiently and productively so
20:53 - Really if you take the time to slow down you realize hey
20:56 - We're both on the same team and probably our end goal is actually the same. So, although we may have some different values in between
21:05 - We don't need to have this really hostile exchange
21:08 - Okay, so slow down
21:11 - Looked at the needs. So let's proceed calmly. So let's see how this conversation could go
21:17 - So Morgan instead says Alex when I saw that you set the points on a story without consulting anyone
21:23 - I felt concerned because I need to trust that we share responsibility as the team. Can you explain what happened?
21:29 - Alex, says the story was just a quick one point task. What does it matter?
21:33 - Morgan says, it seems like you value moving quickly and feel that process sometimes gets in the way is that right now?
21:39 - It says well, yeah, I don't want to talk about process. I just want to get things done
21:43 - Morgan says I also want to get things done. It's also important to me that I feel a sense of order
21:48 - Would you be willing to send a quick note to the team when you point a story on your own so that we at least?
21:53 - We know and then Alex says yeah, I guess I can do that
21:57 - So you'll see this example if I didn't create a magical world where both?
22:01 - People are applying these techniques in this situation. Pretty much only Morgan is applying new techniques, but it can still work
22:08 - so
22:10 - You know and you can reach a solution where because you remember what the end goal is
22:14 - You can come to something that both people can agree with
22:17 - So I know
22:18 - If you're like me when I was sort of talking about this what a waste of time to have to do this in every conversation
22:23 - Well one you don't have to do it in every conversation because sometimes you build up rapport with people so that you don't need to
22:30 - You're unlikely to have
22:31 - an emotional incident every single time
22:34 - But when you do feel yourself getting emotional like when you feel your heart starting to beat faster your fight-or-flight
22:39 - Mechanisms are kicking in. That's really when you know that you need to slow down and work through these steps
22:45 - so giving you kind of a starter guide to this emotional incident runbook, but like I said,
22:50 - It's a much bigger picture here with emotional intelligence and you'll start to notice patterns the things that you value so much that trigger you
22:57 - And trigger that emotional response. So for example some people value
23:02 - fairness, right
23:03 - So if something at work happens that seems unfair which is one of the most common complaints in the workplace
23:07 - Then you may feel yourself getting emotional
23:10 - So it's really about just being able to communicate those needs in a productive way and it really takes practice a lot of practice
23:16 - I can tell you somebody who's had to make this transition
23:19 - But it's so worth it and the whole time. I think it's important to keep in mind a growth mindset
23:24 - Which means let's not say I'm not a people person or I'm an introvert or I'm an engineer. I'm not a manager
23:29 - So why do I have to care about people but instead they hey these skills can help me be more effective in my job
23:34 - So I'm gonna work to develop them over time and I'm gonna be patient with myself as I'm learning this
23:40 - so to this point I
23:41 - Would like to at least do a little bit of exercise a little exercise with you to give you an example with this
23:47 - Don't worry. No one's gonna have to say anything and we're talked to
23:54 - It's all gonna happen in here so think about a time when you lost control of your emotions
23:59 - So when you yelled at somebody or you wrote name read email we all we all do it
24:04 - You know at least in your head really have gotten angry at somebody I guarantee it
24:09 - It's not again. You can tackle me at the end of office
24:11 - Okay
24:11 - so think of an incident and if you're having trouble recalling
24:14 - Something I would say an easy one is getting stuck in traffic
24:18 - Everyone gets so annoyed in traffic right? Because someone cuts you off or someone's not going fast enough. Someone's doing something differently
24:23 - so
24:24 - just I'm gonna pause for a few seconds and just let you think and try to try to come call to mind an incident and
24:30 - Again, you're not gonna have to tell anyone about this though. It doesn't matter
24:32 - It's about work personal life, whatever but think about a time when you feel that maybe you said something you regret
24:39 - You did something a little bit on
24:41 - That was clearly motivated by out of control emotions. Okay. So let's take it a few seconds
25:03 - So hopefully you have one in mind dot you can use the the car one because
25:07 - that would probably works and if you don't drive you could think about
25:10 - When you've had to wait in a really long line
25:11 - Perhaps at the DMV or somewhere else
25:13 - you couldn't get the DMV if you don't even if you don't drive I guess but or
25:17 - Like maybe in line at a amusement park or something? Okay. So then keeping in mind that instead they thought of
25:23 - What would have happened if maybe you'd slowed down?
25:27 - Okay, think about what were your needs in that moment? So let's see in the traffic example, so when I'm stuck in traffic and I
25:36 - actually get more upset when somebody's like tailgating me because I just i've
25:40 - Been rear-ended before and so I kind of have this fear around that so when somebody is tailgating me
25:45 - What I feel is fear. I feel fear
25:48 - I feel
25:48 - annoyance because I'm like don't they know that there's certain following distance that we learned when we took into a driver's test and we're supposed
25:54 - To be following that and I actually drive quickly. So it's surprising to me even in when it happens. But anyway
26:00 - So that's what I'm valuing. So then you know, I could just say oh what a jerk, right
26:04 - But that's what we're gonna do here. So we're gonna think okay offer empathy. Why is this person tailgating me?
26:09 - What are they feeling value me in needing? Well, I suspect that they are trying to get somewhere quickly
26:14 - Maybe they're in a rush because of something, you know distressing happening in their life
26:19 - Maybe it's just trying to get home to see their family for some reason. They're in a hurry
26:22 - Maybe they have a bad day and they feel powerless and this is you know tailgating me
26:27 - It's how they're trying to assert their dominance
26:29 - I don't know what it is, but I can I can think about these possibilities to help build empathy. I can proceed calmly
26:36 - So what are my options?
26:37 - Yeah, I could just like slam drinks
26:39 - Right, but I try to avoid that I do sometimes tap but not in an annoying way like more and just like, you know
26:46 - I'm scared way, but but again, I can't control how its how its interpreted, but maybe I can change lanes
26:52 - maybe I could get off I could actually get off they at the highway take an exit and then maybe you know try again and
26:58 - Hope for the best there are things I could do but what I'm not gonna do is get angry
27:01 - And I'm not going to you know, try to get behind them and then Hoggart or you know, flash my brides or something
27:06 - I'm gonna do something calmly. So in your situation see you. You know, what were you meeting?
27:12 - No, what were you meeting?
27:13 - And what was the other person needing and if no one else was involved?
27:16 - You can just focus more on what you were needing or what
27:19 - You know how you were reacting to yours to your situation?
27:22 - So again, let's take it to you second three using like I use that example. That's to try to help but
27:28 - Since I was talking about full time, it would've been hard for you to do both parts
27:31 - so I'm gonna pause again kind of think about what you were needing in that distressing moment that you thought of and
27:37 - What anyone else involved in that situation was meeting?
28:02 - So again
28:02 - You don't have to share you can just think think of that and I would try to do that
28:06 - on a daily basis and again it takes time because there's so much to Annoying stuff that happens in life there gonna be people who
28:11 - Have totally different values from you that do really things that just really irritate you because of your values
28:17 - so, you know just try to remember on daily basis to try its member to stop and
28:22 - implement these steps
28:23 - the last time I get this talk I
28:25 - Step three was empathize. So it's spelled step and I realized that didn't really make sense
28:29 - And I was like wait a second. I have to change it to offer empathy and stops
28:31 - I'm pretty happy with this kind of thing. Okay. So yes emotional intelligence helps you become more effective as an individual
28:38 - Yes, it can help build more effective teams, but I think there's a bigger picture here. I
28:43 - Think the problems were facing intact all relate to this lack of concern for human beings and by problems were facing in tech
28:49 - I mean, yeah, it's the lack of inclusion and diversity. Yes. The fact that there's a lot of unethical choices made in tech
28:56 - Yes
28:56 - the fact that we're building products that can be addictive and that can be hurtful to
29:00 - Society and I think all of that relates to a lack of concern for human beings so that I think that's the bigger picture here
29:06 - you
29:07 - Karen Armstrong says it all she writes if it is not tempered by compassion and empathy
29:11 - reason can lead men and women into a moral void and I would say that's what happened in tech right now because we've been so
29:17 - Obsessed with just a technical side to logic. The reason we really love compassion and empathy go by the wayside and because of that
29:24 - We've really created a moral void in tech
29:28 - So this is a meditation garden that's near me where I live in Encinitas and I liked I didn't take this picture because I thought
29:34 - It would be like not cool to break out my phone at a meditation. Pardon. So I got this one your website
29:39 - but I go there and it's a beautiful view of the ocean and they have this little booklet and I read this quote and it
29:44 - Really spoke to me if I want to share it with you
29:47 - when people speak of political social or international problems
29:50 - They often do not realize that these conditions are nothing more than the accumulated thoughts and actions of millions of individuals
29:56 - And the only way to change world conditions is to change ourselves
29:59 - So I really think the even bigger picture is this is not just about tech applying these skills of emotional intelligence
30:06 - Can be so important it can be so powerful to create a more peaceful world
30:10 - Where we actually care enough about each other to understand where from and we could make a really big difference here. So
30:16 - With that. Thank you very much. I did take this picture awesome movies
30:20 - This one I can take credit for here's my newsletters that compassionate coding comm. It's also my website blog posts stuff like that
30:27 - I'm going to be having a course on
30:29 - How to avoid burnout and tag coming out soon. So please sign up if you're interested in any of that
30:35 - We're just getting free resources or staying in touch for whatever. Thank you very much

Cleaned transcript:

So hello, thank you for being here especially so early I know it's early in the morning and I appreciate you coming waking up and coming to this weird talk had a Python conference so emotional intelligence for engineers So, oh, no just the elephant in the room. This is a Python conference. So who's this lady? And why is she here to talk to us about our feelings? well, I'm glad you asked so I Hypothetically, so my name is April Wenzel, and I'm a software engineer and I have been for the past decade I worked in a number of different Startups in Silicon Valley and I've led engineering teams including some using Python for some interesting stuff in machine learning to detect autism the kids Do other things with Python pigs and Python and as far as why I'm here So every talk at this conference is really about how to become a more effective developer And I think that this talk is no different because I truly believe that emotional intelligence It's key to becoming the most effective developer that you can be Also, I know that the Python community is a big fan of inclusion, especially in recent years And so emotional intelligence is key to creating inclusive environments So learn more about me I come from San Diego. I took this picture the day before I left It's all this water coming from the sky. Is there any foreign to me, but I'm trying to make do other than that I'm very much enjoying your city So I just tried to slice the sunflower cafe a recommendation from Justin Hoover and it was delicious. This is all vegan It's a barbecue sandwich and you can see the casserole. Just amazing. So very very happy to be here in your city Ok, so I want to go over the plan for this talk I'm gonna talk about what emotional intelligence is why you should care about it I'm gonna focus a lot of time on that cuz I think it's important and how you develop it So my company is called compassionate coding and I do workshops on emotional intelligence for engineers But before all that I used to be kind of jerk I have detailed my jerk days in this blog post Which has actually gotten some attention online Including some attention on reddit where people are not always the most emotionally intelligent in their communication So I got some interesting jerky comments autopost about being a jerk But that's okay because that none of them are his jerky is leaves that I am to myself so, but anyway in this post I talk about how I used to be very Focused on just the technical side I thought okay if I'm perfectly Logical and rational because of course I am right and programmer then I don't have to worry about other people's emotions. That's their problem They're offended by what I say. That's their problem. I also you know, so I was so totally focused on that I have very not emotionally intelligent actively anti emotionally intelligent so I've mentioned this because to all the any of the negative nancies or Nettie's in the audience who are thinking This is a stupid soft talk I assume there probably aren't that many of you because you chose to be here, but if you came just to heckle I Encourage it, but let's save it to the end. So that bless distracting for everyone else but yes, so if you are feeling that skeptical I Understand I have deep empathy for you because I also would have made fun of this talk and thought it was silly so please bear with me so the one exception to the not heckling is I'm trying to avoid using guys for mixed gender groups. So This I would say this is not a picture of guys. This photo comes from this great site Women in women of color and type attack calm we can access stuff that is done at women in color tech I would also say that this is not a group of there is Also, not a group of ladies So I'm gonna try to use these terms folks everybody everyone people all in because in the south and from Texas y'all friends a team so if you hear me say guys when I'm referring to a mixed gender group or a group of unknown gender then just raise your hand and Because I want to get better. So thank you for helping me out with that So those feel intelligence what is it? I'd like to talk about what it's not So it's not just being fake. It's not just being nice. It is not ignoring logic and reason This is I thought this is a really cool picture. It supposed to be a Rubik's Cube then destroy itself We're not destroying or forgetting logic and reason it's not sugar coating So this is what I used to think it was And that's why I hated it so much because I was like we should just be too to each other We shouldn't be sugarcoating and it turns out it's not sugarcoating. So steady clear It's not that it also doesn't mean being an extrovert or a social butterfly I get that sometimes where people think well, I'm an introvert. I'm an introvert Okay, and I am definitely by no means a social butterfly and I still think you're able to build emotional intelligence So it's not that It's also not being completely ruled and dominated by, you know, your emotions your unbridled and bridled emotions. I Posted about giving this talk on LinkedIn and some honked and also gets get some interesting trolls but somebody comments it and they're like you know ya motions are great and all but we don't want to be But it's important to you know to keep them in check and I'm like that's what emotional intelligence is about So why would you anyway so it's not being ruled by your emotions? Emotional intelligence is the ability to understand and manage emotions Which I'm using the word emotion in it, so it's not a great definition. So to go give more specifics these are some of the examples of aspects of emotional intelligence selfawareness confidence empathy achievement collaboration motivation resilience conflict management Ton of other things, but those that's the kind of them genre they're talking about You may know them by the term soft skills this is the term that I hate and I very rarely use the word hate because I think it adds a lot of negativity the World, but I'm using it here because I feel that's dispassionately about it. I hate the word soft skills. What? Because one softness it's has become associated with weakness in our culture So we say things like he's gone soft to me and you know, he's gotten weak or something like that I also think it's weirdly associated just with women. So in the early 90s, there were these commercials Come see the softer side of Sears and it was when Sears introduced in addition to the hardware that they were selling Accessories and clothing for women and it's not that soft skills being associated with women is bad because women are bad but rather because it's a limited view and I think soft skills quote our Emotional intelligence really is for everyone. Not just women not just people you know who identify with their femininity. It's really for everyone to illustrate this I had I this example was gifted to me by the universe because when I was on my way to another Conference where I was getting this talk, I stepped onto an airport shuttle and they were talking about the Super Bowl and they were talking about Doug Peterson who I guess is the coach of the Eagles and since they wanna cut this slide in if They have lost he was taking it out, but they said Doug Peterson really has emotional intelligence He recognized that word but that turnaround is so excited he recognizes that football is not just a tactical game but a psychological game and I was just like yes, if emotional intelligence is associated football then how can we possibly call it a soft skill so soft skill so Please stop calling them soft skills, please. Please, please Please also call the people skills because people skills has become The punchline of jokes. So this is from the movie office space and the people who have come to do layoffs Ask him ask this guy what his job is I just got a bit of Dom So they asked me what he does and he mentions that he takes requirements from the customer and takes them to the engineers and he it says maybe they acts like confused and I have people skills and So it's you know people skills. It's easy to make fun of because it's become kind of cliched coentrão So instead I recommend that we use this term catalytic skills Now this comes from a talk that I saw by Daniel Goleman He was getting a talk at Google and you can watch it on YouTube this link And he says he calls them catalytic skills because they help us Catalyzed our technical skills meaning to help us acquire new technical skills and apply them more effectively So so I think I would love it. If we ditch the term Sox Bill Vol together call them catalytic skills Ok So why should you care about any of this? So let's talk about why software projects fail. So this data this is a subset of reasons that Project software projects fail they the application developer developer's Alliance surveyed 850 software developers smoked each group, but Whatever somewhere to start from and here's some of the reasons that they gave so the ones in blue You'll see changing or poorly documented requirements poor team organizational management developer churn or loss of key talent. These are all things that would benefit from emotional intelligence the way on the end Not insignificant, but less than the others you have immature dev tools and application platforms but I feel like a lot of the discourse in tech is around how to optimize the dev tools and application platforms and Really? That's not not my software projects are failing. I mean some of them are that's one reason but Largely, it's it's more on the human side that our projects are failing And you can read more and that's very clear Another study so they the in 1994 but it's still highly relevant. You still haven't fixed it There's this paper that came out the essential competencies of software engineers, and there's very tiny table that's not important to you All right now, but you can access the paper there. And again, I'm gonna put these slides up But the top three how much of the tea is the palest that are that Exceptional software engineers are team oriented they seek help and they help others Wow. Okay, so that those are all aspects of emotional intelligence Another reason you should care. So it seems like every week there's a new article about burnout in tech I've also written one which is accessible there. And I think that's because burnout really happens when we're not able to control our Responses to situations and when we feel a kind of powerless and emotional intelligence can really help with that So I know we like to think I certainly used to think that I came to work and I shut off my emotions I'm completely rational completely logical. You know, I'm just debating issues using you know, pure reason and It's just not true So I hate to break it to you. You're not a robot. You're not none of you You're human being and every single human being has emotions every single one Apple CEO Tim Cook in a commencement address last year said I'm not worried about artificial intelligence Giving computers the ability to think like humans. I'm more concerned about people thinking like computers So even if we could think like robots it wouldn't be a good idea Because we're humans and we need to to care about each other So as a software engineer here are some of the things that you do on a daily basis potentially that could benefit from emotional intelligence if you think effective feedback and code reviews naming variables is Really benefits from empathy designing api's also benefits from empathy which is an aspect of emotional intelligence Negotiating with designers or product managers rallying support for a new tool quick story there I was at a company and we were using a remote conferencing tool called sakoku And the quality was really bad and it was just it was always crashing because of how big our team was So some of us that suggested we use zoom and we did this we prepared this very logical document spreadsheet comparing the pros and cons and we you know trying to rally support and Everyone was so emotional about it and it turned out that it wasn't because of the pros and cons, you know They weren't convincing because the people who like to poco so much felt that it helped them feel more a lot. They contributed to their sense of belonging on the team because it had this like these little Office pictures of little offices like a virtual office and for some reason they had they had grown Emotionally attached to this tool and so their response was so emotional because of that so it was hard So we need to elevate the conversation from just a purely rational level to really address it on a human level So even rallying support for a new tool a new framework in benefit from emotional intelligence Also being able to motivate yourself to learn new skills interviewing candidates Definitely a big one here to be able to put people at ease into not rule out people unfairly Through your interview style and also to mentor new hires. I Would also suggest that the agile manifesto is a way of layering emotional intelligence on to software development So I went through all of the principles of the agile manifesto and called out which elements of emotional intelligence each one addresses So here's just one example So one of the principles is we both know changing requirements even late in development Agile processes harness change for the customers competitive advantage in this because the empathy service service orientation adaptability Optimism and initiative which are all aspects little intelligence so Jerry Weinberg wrote this great book the psychology of computer programming in the early 70s and He said it is possible to be too smart for programming if the person is not smart enough to use this intelligence To modify the social behavior and methods of conversation I thought it is a nice quote and it was the 70s which is why it uses his but I Want it to the percentage of with fidelity's there? Ok? There are also some personal benefits many personal benefits to growing emotional intelligence. It helps reduce your stress improves productivity helps you with better relationships Increases your happiness and I know a citation needed so we've visit the greater good science center at UC Berkeley's website because they have tons of Research backs studies on this so that's why I have new citation for each one You can do your research take my word for it, or you can decide I've decided that I don't necessarily need Absolute proof of something working before I'm willing to experiment it if it has, you know a low investment So I've also seen these in my own life Okay, so assuming now that you're at least somewhat interested developing your emotional intelligence. Let's talk about how to do it So I like to use a metaphor. That's not unfamiliar to people intent So hopefully most of you are familiar with the idea of being on call I saw so we're the past day There's been like a lot of discussion on Twitter. People are debating on call I haven't really been following it, but they're apparently, you know, most people understand this idea of being on call But just to make it clear So if you if your site goes down or if there's something there's some kind of problem on your app or your website somebody will get a notification probably not on an actual device like this anymore, but that's you know, you're on call so Being a human it's kind of like being on call all the time and you're distressing emotions are like alerts and similar similarly to how When you don't deal with an alert properly on your system It's similar to when you do that as a human Disaster strikes. So what does it look like if you don't handle your remote channel alerts properly? well, Daniel Goldman says out of control emotions can make smart people stupid and What he means by that are some examples you might if you're over if you're very emotional about something What you might do is send an email that you later regret I may or may not have done this in the past You may send a slack message. That isn't particularly kind you may you know, yell at somebody and say something that you regret You also just may be so distracted by how angry you are that you're not productive It's like so this is why it's helpful to be able to manage your distressing emotions And this is just one aspect of emotional intelligence, but I feel like it illustrates the bigger picture here So that's the one we're gonna focus on So I'd like to present to you an emotional incident runbook so similar to how when there's an alert on your system Sometimes you'll have some kind of runbook you might call it a playbook and it's a list of things that you can do to help troubleshoot the site so maybe it's you know where to look in the logs to see if something's broken or You know who to contact about this near that or what to look for in the database or whatever. It may be to troubleshoot so I'm gonna do that but for your emotional incidents So here's the process I'd like to present Which is slowing down Tending to your needs Offering empathy and proceeding calmly these are steps. You can take whenever you find yourself in the middle of an emotional incident The spells out stop which is nice Easy to remember so we'll go through each one in turn The first one is slow down Which is a bit ironic. It's I'm a fast talker and I'm saying slow down, but it's very important so I took a meditation class a few years ago and The instructor was talking about how our anxious mind is kind of like a jar of water That's full of sediment that's been shaken up and all of our anxious thoughts are like the sediment and that Meditation or just slowing down in an informal way? Allows the sediment or the anxious thoughts to settle so that we have clarity in the jar meaning you can see through the water but also Metaphorically in your mind you have more clarity about your situation. That's why it's so important True story. I dropped that meditation class after the laughs I thought it was moving too slowly and I thought I'd be remiss and get it faster So I had a lot to learn but I think I've made some progress since then So the next I was tending to your needs So what are beads what I'm even in Venice? So here are some examples of needs they come from a book called nonviolent communication by Marshall Rosenberg highly recommend this book So we have basic means like shelter arrest food safety We also have me it's like autonomy creativity meaning love respect trust closeness community fun Laughter beauty order. Peace So most time you have spiritual needs These are examples of needs that meet we could be experiencing and they definitely affect our emotional responses So the empathy piece is trying to understand what the other person is feeling Valuing and eating so you slow down You understand your needs you tend to them? If you can first you understand what the other person is feeling and then you proceed calmly With what you've decided based on all that information so I'd like to walk through an example just because that really helped and This may be difficult to read so I'm going to read it out It's actually difficult for me to read on here so quick. You look closer But yeah, so here's an example of an exchange between two developers and please imagine them as whatever gender you would like I tried to use names that are commonly used for multiple genders. So the first one says Alex I saw that you set the points on a story by yourself again, we're supposed to vote as a team now They're discussing an issue tracker where you set points on a story like in them an agile software development The other developer says I never agreed to that the story was just a quick task. What does it matter? We have a process in place and we're supposed to stick to it. You always do that bring up process We waste so much time talking about process I just want to get things done and you're always being reckless and breaking things We have processes in place for a reason if you can't stick to them. Maybe you shouldn't be on the team Yeah, maybe I shouldn't well, okay that escalated quickly. So this is what happens when we don't apply emotional intelligence we think we're having a perfectly rational rational debate about process and this and that but you can tell people's emotions are definitely Involved here, even if what they're saying You know may just be could be potentially just raffle so Let's walk through the steps to slow down. So the first is you know just because you see something that bothered to you don't just immediately jump in and try to Criticize someone or tell them why they're wrong, right? So let's take a step back and try to unwind this a bit. Ok, so Morgan sees that Alex have set the story point without consulting the team Okay. So what is it likely that Morgan values in this situation? I would say that Morgan values order Organization structure process. Why does this person value these things? Well, I would imagine it's because Morgan would like santaville deliver value to the customers in organized and productive efficient way, so What is Alex value in this situation? It seems to me like Alex values moving quickly not getting weighed down by excessive process and Why would Alex value that well? probably because Alex would like to deliver value to the customer efficiently and productively so Really if you take the time to slow down you realize hey We're both on the same team and probably our end goal is actually the same. So, although we may have some different values in between We don't need to have this really hostile exchange Okay, so slow down Looked at the needs. So let's proceed calmly. So let's see how this conversation could go So Morgan instead says Alex when I saw that you set the points on a story without consulting anyone I felt concerned because I need to trust that we share responsibility as the team. Can you explain what happened? Alex, says the story was just a quick one point task. What does it matter? Morgan says, it seems like you value moving quickly and feel that process sometimes gets in the way is that right now? It says well, yeah, I don't want to talk about process. I just want to get things done Morgan says I also want to get things done. It's also important to me that I feel a sense of order Would you be willing to send a quick note to the team when you point a story on your own so that we at least? We know and then Alex says yeah, I guess I can do that So you'll see this example if I didn't create a magical world where both? People are applying these techniques in this situation. Pretty much only Morgan is applying new techniques, but it can still work so You know and you can reach a solution where because you remember what the end goal is You can come to something that both people can agree with So I know If you're like me when I was sort of talking about this what a waste of time to have to do this in every conversation Well one you don't have to do it in every conversation because sometimes you build up rapport with people so that you don't need to You're unlikely to have an emotional incident every single time But when you do feel yourself getting emotional like when you feel your heart starting to beat faster your fightorflight Mechanisms are kicking in. That's really when you know that you need to slow down and work through these steps so giving you kind of a starter guide to this emotional incident runbook, but like I said, It's a much bigger picture here with emotional intelligence and you'll start to notice patterns the things that you value so much that trigger you And trigger that emotional response. So for example some people value fairness, right So if something at work happens that seems unfair which is one of the most common complaints in the workplace Then you may feel yourself getting emotional So it's really about just being able to communicate those needs in a productive way and it really takes practice a lot of practice I can tell you somebody who's had to make this transition But it's so worth it and the whole time. I think it's important to keep in mind a growth mindset Which means let's not say I'm not a people person or I'm an introvert or I'm an engineer. I'm not a manager So why do I have to care about people but instead they hey these skills can help me be more effective in my job So I'm gonna work to develop them over time and I'm gonna be patient with myself as I'm learning this so to this point I Would like to at least do a little bit of exercise a little exercise with you to give you an example with this Don't worry. No one's gonna have to say anything and we're talked to It's all gonna happen in here so think about a time when you lost control of your emotions So when you yelled at somebody or you wrote name read email we all we all do it You know at least in your head really have gotten angry at somebody I guarantee it It's not again. You can tackle me at the end of office Okay so think of an incident and if you're having trouble recalling Something I would say an easy one is getting stuck in traffic Everyone gets so annoyed in traffic right? Because someone cuts you off or someone's not going fast enough. Someone's doing something differently so just I'm gonna pause for a few seconds and just let you think and try to try to come call to mind an incident and Again, you're not gonna have to tell anyone about this though. It doesn't matter It's about work personal life, whatever but think about a time when you feel that maybe you said something you regret You did something a little bit on That was clearly motivated by out of control emotions. Okay. So let's take it a few seconds So hopefully you have one in mind dot you can use the the car one because that would probably works and if you don't drive you could think about When you've had to wait in a really long line Perhaps at the DMV or somewhere else you couldn't get the DMV if you don't even if you don't drive I guess but or Like maybe in line at a amusement park or something? Okay. So then keeping in mind that instead they thought of What would have happened if maybe you'd slowed down? Okay, think about what were your needs in that moment? So let's see in the traffic example, so when I'm stuck in traffic and I actually get more upset when somebody's like tailgating me because I just i've Been rearended before and so I kind of have this fear around that so when somebody is tailgating me What I feel is fear. I feel fear I feel annoyance because I'm like don't they know that there's certain following distance that we learned when we took into a driver's test and we're supposed To be following that and I actually drive quickly. So it's surprising to me even in when it happens. But anyway So that's what I'm valuing. So then you know, I could just say oh what a jerk, right But that's what we're gonna do here. So we're gonna think okay offer empathy. Why is this person tailgating me? What are they feeling value me in needing? Well, I suspect that they are trying to get somewhere quickly Maybe they're in a rush because of something, you know distressing happening in their life Maybe it's just trying to get home to see their family for some reason. They're in a hurry Maybe they have a bad day and they feel powerless and this is you know tailgating me It's how they're trying to assert their dominance I don't know what it is, but I can I can think about these possibilities to help build empathy. I can proceed calmly So what are my options? Yeah, I could just like slam drinks Right, but I try to avoid that I do sometimes tap but not in an annoying way like more and just like, you know I'm scared way, but but again, I can't control how its how its interpreted, but maybe I can change lanes maybe I could get off I could actually get off they at the highway take an exit and then maybe you know try again and Hope for the best there are things I could do but what I'm not gonna do is get angry And I'm not going to you know, try to get behind them and then Hoggart or you know, flash my brides or something I'm gonna do something calmly. So in your situation see you. You know, what were you meeting? No, what were you meeting? And what was the other person needing and if no one else was involved? You can just focus more on what you were needing or what You know how you were reacting to yours to your situation? So again, let's take it to you second three using like I use that example. That's to try to help but Since I was talking about full time, it would've been hard for you to do both parts so I'm gonna pause again kind of think about what you were needing in that distressing moment that you thought of and What anyone else involved in that situation was meeting? So again You don't have to share you can just think think of that and I would try to do that on a daily basis and again it takes time because there's so much to Annoying stuff that happens in life there gonna be people who Have totally different values from you that do really things that just really irritate you because of your values so, you know just try to remember on daily basis to try its member to stop and implement these steps the last time I get this talk I Step three was empathize. So it's spelled step and I realized that didn't really make sense And I was like wait a second. I have to change it to offer empathy and stops I'm pretty happy with this kind of thing. Okay. So yes emotional intelligence helps you become more effective as an individual Yes, it can help build more effective teams, but I think there's a bigger picture here. I Think the problems were facing intact all relate to this lack of concern for human beings and by problems were facing in tech I mean, yeah, it's the lack of inclusion and diversity. Yes. The fact that there's a lot of unethical choices made in tech Yes the fact that we're building products that can be addictive and that can be hurtful to Society and I think all of that relates to a lack of concern for human beings so that I think that's the bigger picture here you Karen Armstrong says it all she writes if it is not tempered by compassion and empathy reason can lead men and women into a moral void and I would say that's what happened in tech right now because we've been so Obsessed with just a technical side to logic. The reason we really love compassion and empathy go by the wayside and because of that We've really created a moral void in tech So this is a meditation garden that's near me where I live in Encinitas and I liked I didn't take this picture because I thought It would be like not cool to break out my phone at a meditation. Pardon. So I got this one your website but I go there and it's a beautiful view of the ocean and they have this little booklet and I read this quote and it Really spoke to me if I want to share it with you when people speak of political social or international problems They often do not realize that these conditions are nothing more than the accumulated thoughts and actions of millions of individuals And the only way to change world conditions is to change ourselves So I really think the even bigger picture is this is not just about tech applying these skills of emotional intelligence Can be so important it can be so powerful to create a more peaceful world Where we actually care enough about each other to understand where from and we could make a really big difference here. So With that. Thank you very much. I did take this picture awesome movies This one I can take credit for here's my newsletters that compassionate coding comm. It's also my website blog posts stuff like that I'm going to be having a course on How to avoid burnout and tag coming out soon. So please sign up if you're interested in any of that We're just getting free resources or staying in touch for whatever. Thank you very much
