With timestamps:

00:00 - In this video we are going to talk about
collision detection and collision
00:03 - avoidance. So before we do that, let's
imagine there's a room and there are,
00:08 - like, three different people and when two
people are talking, the third person, if
00:13 - he tries to talk, the conversation
becomes difficult for the other two
00:17 - people. In the same way,
00:19 - let's say we have three different
computers on the same network. Now if A
00:24 - was talking to B and C suddenly
transfers data to A there is a
00:32 - collision and when this collision
happens the original message from A to B
00:37 - becomes garbage.
00:39 - It's of no use anymore because there is
interference. So when there is a
00:42 - collision that happens A detects it and
it backs off before it tries to send a
00:48 - message back to B again. So this was in
the original days of the networking but
00:53 - later
00:54 - what happened is, they added the concept of collision avoidance. So in that, what
01:00 - happens is: C, before it actually
starts sending data to A, it tries to see
01:07 - if there is a conversation going on
already before it sends. So that's CA
01:13 - or Collision Avoidance.

Cleaned transcript:

In this video we are going to talk about collision detection and collision avoidance. So before we do that, let's imagine there's a room and there are, like, three different people and when two people are talking, the third person, if he tries to talk, the conversation becomes difficult for the other two people. In the same way, let's say we have three different computers on the same network. Now if A was talking to B and C suddenly transfers data to A there is a collision and when this collision happens the original message from A to B becomes garbage. It's of no use anymore because there is interference. So when there is a collision that happens A detects it and it backs off before it tries to send a message back to B again. So this was in the original days of the networking but later what happened is, they added the concept of collision avoidance. So in that, what happens is C, before it actually starts sending data to A, it tries to see if there is a conversation going on already before it sends. So that's CA or Collision Avoidance.
