With timestamps:

00:00 - My name is Robert Axelsen as I said, you can find me on most of things @robaxelson.
00:05 - I'm a software developer by day by profession. I learned to code mainly via freeCodeCamp
00:13 - The meetup we are at now is for freeCodeCamp.org
00:18 - And I also organized meetups: this meetup here and also Vienna Go, Go Line meet up and Vue Jazz Vienna
00:26 - And I really love being around open-source and
00:30 - developer geek community
00:32 - So I keep doing this because it's ultimately fun
00:35 - If you want to learn more about mine and Daniel's journey
00:39 - Going from learn to code and getting a first developer job
00:42 - You can go to my website and there's a link to our talk there
00:47 - Okay, so let's go straight into it the first obstacle that you might meet and to preface it
00:53 - These obstacles are mainly based on
00:56 - My own experience and talking to people
00:59 - Fellow co-students. This is by no means as of this talk an exhaustive list
01:04 - So, please feel free again in the questions section to ask. We'll leave room for questions after the talk
01:14 - So when you're dealing with time the time might be an issue because
01:18 - I think starting out. It's easy to think that oh, you know
01:21 - I'll put like three weeks into this and I really focus and
01:24 - Maybe I'll learn a lot and then you realize after three months that oh god. There's so much to learn so
01:29 - There's different ways that time can hit you in the face
01:33 - But I think there are some things to keep in mind to not get too overwhelmed or too impatient
01:40 - One thing is to accept that learning takes time. Yes. It doesn't take too long to learn the basics of programming
01:45 - That's one thing that I struggle with on the opposite of time was that I thought it would take
01:50 - both the mind of a genius
01:53 - You know
01:55 - What is it called, prodigy or
01:58 - a really really long time and math skills to learn to program, but I kept
02:04 - having to face that
02:06 - Myth or misconception and I gradually learned that no, it's easier to then I thought to learn the basics
02:13 - but once you have the basics, what you really need to focus on is
02:18 - repetition repetition and getting better and just doing a lot so
02:22 - Things will take time. But to get the basics and get up to speed
02:25 - It doesn't necessarily have to takes a long time, but just manage your expectations and that learning the code
02:31 - It's not something to do on a whim and you need to be ready to commit
02:36 - Maybe, you know several months a half a year a year
02:39 - Depending on what you want to get out of programming if you want to learn to code
02:43 - definitely think longer than two weeks
02:49 - In learning to code you can also get trapped into spending too much time on stuff that
02:55 - you might realize afterwards weren't giving you as much
02:58 - Or weren't as beneficial to you, so you should instead of forcing yourself to
03:06 - Stick with the course you found
03:09 - You should rather try different courses, different books, different learning formats and see what works for you
03:16 - and what some of the
03:19 - Combinations of resources and courses and curriculum and teachers etc. might speed up things for you,
03:25 - so don't be afraid to experiment
03:29 - Again realistic time frame. We already talked about
03:33 - It helps to form helpful habits
03:35 - so instead of sitting down and forcing yourself to learn for two hours
03:38 - if you have habits in place and routines where it's not an issue, it's not a struggle to get started.
03:44 - It makes it easier. It's not easy to form habits
03:46 - It takes commitment in the beginning, but once it's habits, it makes it it's a habit. It's much easier just to get going
03:55 - Doubt is one thing that you can be faced with
03:58 - I think especially when you're thinking about applying for jobs even when you've got your first job or
04:05 - When you've started study. Like I had a wall after like three four months of starting freeCodeCamp
04:08 - I was like god dammit. Can I really do this? There's so much left to learn.
04:15 - I loved eating success stories for breakfast I still do
04:19 - There's tons of success stories on freeCodeCamp, the Medium publication if you just google it online
04:25 - There's so much stuff out there. Just talk to people in the audience today
04:29 - And just remember that everyone started somewhere. So even the most, you know accomplished
04:35 - Developer out there or even the most accomplished speaker / persona and whatever pick your programming language stage
04:46 - Started somewhere some people yes started when they were almost starting to walk and were like four or five year olds
04:52 - But most people started later in life
04:54 - and there's tons of success stories of people starting when they were twenty thirty forty fifty
04:59 - there was recently a great article by Quincy Larson, the founder of freeCodeCamp on just that topic
05:06 - Even for experienced developers. Google is your best friend
05:08 - So if you're doubting how to do this, someone else probably have also asked the same question
05:13 - Can I really do what I was tasked to do right now or what I chose to create. So don't be afraid to Google
05:21 - all the time
05:23 - It only seems the haters, it depends a bit about on your family and your friends
05:27 - I've been blessed to not have so many people
05:30 - Questioning why I was learning to code or
05:33 - Why are you learning to code and stuff like this?
05:36 - but I know some people have that issue and it's not easy to just ignore them if they're important part of your life,
05:43 - but don't give their opinions too much value and
05:49 - yes, you can we have again success stories tons of stories here today of people that have dealt with doubt and still have overcome and
05:57 - managed to learn to code
06:00 - Resources. Mentioning this it ties into some of the other things we've discussed
06:06 - When you are faced with doubt or time constraints
06:10 - Also in the beginning but
06:12 - When you are hitting a wall and feeling like Oh freeCodeCamp
06:16 - is maybe not for me or you're doing another online course or you're reading a book and you're getting stuck
06:21 - Don't be afraid to question the resource that you are using to learn to code.
06:26 - I supplemented freeCodeCamp first with "Eloquent JavaScript", a book
06:30 - and then gradually more with Udemy video courses
06:35 - But just don't be afraid to experiment there's tons of free resources, there's tons of cheap courses
06:43 - So the main focus on how to deal with resources is don't be afraid to test out things and switch it up
06:49 - but on the other flipside
06:52 - Don't get too fragmented. Like there's the shiny object syndrome of course
06:57 - You might try to buy every new fancy course and think that that's going to be the "blue pill"
07:01 - that's gonna get you from A to B in two weeks doesn't work like that, but
07:08 - Find something that works for you, and when you find something stick with it
07:12 - It can also help to have a mentor. It's not always so easy to find.
07:16 - In absence of that, co-students can be in my experience really good to just meet regularly at meetups
07:23 - taking initiative to meet people for coffee and some talking about code, you know
07:28 - give each other feedback and to
07:31 - have this
07:33 - Social sort of pressure to when you meet someone the next time. Oh, I should have completed that JavaScript calculator
07:39 - Let me just do that before I meet them tomorrow
07:41 - And pair programming is worth trying if you haven't. There's a lot of online communities where you can meet people and pair program for a session.
07:49 - You can also meet people in real life
07:51 - Pair programming is sitting together with someone else and coding on the same thing on one screen normally
07:58 - Just to not bore you too much I took in a bonus point here
08:04 - An obstacle when learning to code can be vim. If you don't know what vim is, it's a code editor in the terminal
08:10 - It's been around since the beginning of unix times
08:13 - or not so long, but it's been around for a couple of decades
08:17 - and it's infamous for being hard to
08:21 - Exit out of so if you just open it up and you don't know how to exit out of it
08:25 - You probably will not figure out and you close your terminal
08:29 - But this is more of a joke than a real obstacle if you want to know how to exit vim, this is how you exit vim
08:38 - Just to have that included
08:47 - So you literally just do
08:50 - Escape to have the command section
08:53 - and then you have : q and exclamation mark
08:57 - but you might be normally fine without the exclamation mark
09:00 - It sounds simple but on the other hand, it sounds may be unnecessary when you just gonna exit something
09:07 - so
09:08 - Let's get back on track
09:10 - Distractions is another thing, as with anything in life, especially with the infamous Millennials and all the distractions we have these days
09:19 - it's easy to sit down and
09:21 - You were going to learn to code today and then two hours later
09:24 - You've been checking everything on YouTube and all the latest JavaScript news or whatever
09:31 - It's a bit tricky one because again for me what helps the most is
09:36 - I realized the one thing I haven't put here I'll mention that but its habits again.
09:40 - If you manage to do stuff for the right reasons and also
09:43 - form the habits that you need to have the routine that works for you
09:49 - Like every morning for 20 minutes
09:52 - At lunch or in the evening before you watch your favorite TV series or whatever
09:58 - That you just stick with some routines and follow them.
10:02 - I like really the routine of just sticking with freeCodeCamp and getting the  brownie points if I help people at freeCodeCamp.org
10:10 - Via the chat room you get brownie points when people thank you. I just kind of kept wanting that
10:16 - Statistics of my points to go up that was the motivating force
10:21 - One thing I didn't put up here is that it helps to... no, I got distracted. So I forgot what it was
10:28 - so we'll get back to that
10:30 - Again to the better resources, I think that's the theme of this talk now
10:35 - But if you get distracted it might be because the course is not the best fit for you
10:39 - Maybe you would do better reading a book for an hour than for following
10:45 - something video or maybe
10:47 - Tutorials where you get to do stuff as you go along is better for you and so on and also one thing
10:53 - Actually it is here, but just didn't realize the thing that I forgot is
10:57 - Work on your "why". So if you feel
11:00 - lacking motivation or being distracted too easily. It might be because you're lacking motivation you need to learn to code
11:06 - You might rethink why you're learning to code and if it's really the right thing for you now
11:11 - Maybe it's a better fit in a year to be honest something happened
11:14 - You're like, oh no I need to do this for other reasons, but if you don't either have the passion for programming code
11:20 - These kind of things or you have the right reason to do it, it will be harder
11:24 - It's just a fact so you can still do it. You just need to figure out how to work on that for you
11:30 - I've been blessed that I've been loving computer since I could
11:34 - walk and tap on
11:37 - Keyboards, I just didn't get into programming until recently
11:43 - We'll save the questions for after because we are filming so it's not so easy to take questions during the filming
11:51 - But just keep them if you had some
11:54 - Getting stuck again. We've covered this sort of and we've covered switching up
12:00 - one thing I want to focus on is that if you feel like
12:05 - You were committing to a course or a material and you're like, yeah, but I can't give up
12:10 - I'm so invested in this for whatever reason, it's fine. You can just stop
12:15 - Try something else and it might work you might even return to where you were because you learned something from a different perspective.
12:21 - I had that experience with "Eloquent JavaScript" reading that for several chapters
12:25 - And I got the same things that were explained in freeCodeCamp curriculum in a different way and it was like, "Aha!"
12:31 - Now I felt more equipped to tackle the course afterwards
12:36 - Debugging is a thing where it depends on what you're coding in.
12:41 - It depends a bit on you and how strict you are on debugging with debugging tools in the beginning or not
12:51 - There are different opinions on this. But whichever way you are debugging with your language with your set of tools
13:02 - It helps getting better at
13:04 - Figuring out why your code is not working right now
13:07 - Google, again as we talked about if you're doing front-end the chrome developer tools and getting better at breakpoints and
13:15 - debugging having debugger
13:17 - as a
13:19 - as
13:21 - Variable name or like a method that you hook into your JavaScript and it stops in the browser to give you the
13:27 - To stop in time where you are debugging and those kind of things help
13:32 - If you don't know much about this, and I've had problems coding look into debugging
13:36 - Just google it
13:39 - What helps for me sometimes, and there's been studies done on this, if you are coding and you feel stuck and this could be
13:44 - professionally or learning to code
13:46 - it might be good with the context switch where you just force yourself to be like but I'm in the middle of this
13:51 - I can make this work and then you're an hour later. I can make this work and you're like, okay stop
13:55 - Just take a break 10 to 15 minutes
13:58 - go for a walk, do something entirely different and you might be like
14:01 - but now and then you go back to it or just the fact that you had a break you go back and you look at
14:06 - It with fresh eyes, it very often helps
14:09 - Yeah, Google again
14:12 - Okay, so
14:14 - For one of the last points. I think it's the last
14:17 - obstacle we're going over today is
14:20 - Deflation you might be like Oh
14:23 - Goddamn it. I've I've been trying to learn to code for like one week three months half a year or more and you feel like
14:32 - Yeah, you need some motivation. You're like, maybe it's not for me or whatever
14:38 - In my experience it helps to go to meetups or to socialize with others that also are learning to code.
14:49 - Sometimes it might help to be proactive for me and I also know Daniel
14:53 - It helps to look at motivational talks and documentaries
14:58 - I love these kind of success stories again or seeing like how this you know, seven year old kid
15:04 - that was a programming prodigy
15:06 - got into college early and just conquered the world with his iOS apps and those kind of things
15:11 - and I'm like if he can do that, I can certainly get further in my course material, and stuff like this.
15:19 - Yeah, and ultimately your "why," so if you're if you're kind of stuck ask yourself
15:24 - Why am I doing this and maybe I try to do some self motivation
15:29 - cool
15:31 - Just to make this talk even more exciting. We're hiring at my company. I mentioned this before but we're still hiring
15:37 - a front-end / full stack developer.
15:41 - We're also looking for a back-end
15:42 - The profile for both is a bit a little bit more
15:46 - Experienced because yeah, that's the general gist
15:49 - Have a look or send us an email if you are interested, and if you feel you don't have enough experience
15:54 - Feel free to still approach me or send an email or look at the website. It might still be
16:01 - Worth a look for you
16:05 - Yeah, I worked there
16:08 - I do JavaScript front-end stuff with Vue.js mainly at the moment
16:13 - Cool, I think
16:18 - Yes, I think that was it
16:21 - before we end I want to reinforce and I'll
16:25 - follow this up with putting a
16:28 - repo in the comment sessions because I want this talk to be something that people can contribute to
16:34 - I realized giving this talk that there's a lot of repetitiveness and there's some stuff that I could maybe when I talking about it could
16:40 - want to add myself. If people have stuff they would like to add or
16:45 - Feel they can contribute with help on how to overcome obstacles
16:48 - You're free to help
16:50 - With this talk for the future. Thank you very much
16:54 - [applause]

Cleaned transcript:

My name is Robert Axelsen as I said, you can find me on most of things @robaxelson. I'm a software developer by day by profession. I learned to code mainly via freeCodeCamp The meetup we are at now is for freeCodeCamp.org And I also organized meetups this meetup here and also Vienna Go, Go Line meet up and Vue Jazz Vienna And I really love being around opensource and developer geek community So I keep doing this because it's ultimately fun If you want to learn more about mine and Daniel's journey Going from learn to code and getting a first developer job You can go to my website and there's a link to our talk there Okay, so let's go straight into it the first obstacle that you might meet and to preface it These obstacles are mainly based on My own experience and talking to people Fellow costudents. This is by no means as of this talk an exhaustive list So, please feel free again in the questions section to ask. We'll leave room for questions after the talk So when you're dealing with time the time might be an issue because I think starting out. It's easy to think that oh, you know I'll put like three weeks into this and I really focus and Maybe I'll learn a lot and then you realize after three months that oh god. There's so much to learn so There's different ways that time can hit you in the face But I think there are some things to keep in mind to not get too overwhelmed or too impatient One thing is to accept that learning takes time. Yes. It doesn't take too long to learn the basics of programming That's one thing that I struggle with on the opposite of time was that I thought it would take both the mind of a genius You know What is it called, prodigy or a really really long time and math skills to learn to program, but I kept having to face that Myth or misconception and I gradually learned that no, it's easier to then I thought to learn the basics but once you have the basics, what you really need to focus on is repetition repetition and getting better and just doing a lot so Things will take time. But to get the basics and get up to speed It doesn't necessarily have to takes a long time, but just manage your expectations and that learning the code It's not something to do on a whim and you need to be ready to commit Maybe, you know several months a half a year a year Depending on what you want to get out of programming if you want to learn to code definitely think longer than two weeks In learning to code you can also get trapped into spending too much time on stuff that you might realize afterwards weren't giving you as much Or weren't as beneficial to you, so you should instead of forcing yourself to Stick with the course you found You should rather try different courses, different books, different learning formats and see what works for you and what some of the Combinations of resources and courses and curriculum and teachers etc. might speed up things for you, so don't be afraid to experiment Again realistic time frame. We already talked about It helps to form helpful habits so instead of sitting down and forcing yourself to learn for two hours if you have habits in place and routines where it's not an issue, it's not a struggle to get started. It makes it easier. It's not easy to form habits It takes commitment in the beginning, but once it's habits, it makes it it's a habit. It's much easier just to get going Doubt is one thing that you can be faced with I think especially when you're thinking about applying for jobs even when you've got your first job or When you've started study. Like I had a wall after like three four months of starting freeCodeCamp I was like god dammit. Can I really do this? There's so much left to learn. I loved eating success stories for breakfast I still do There's tons of success stories on freeCodeCamp, the Medium publication if you just google it online There's so much stuff out there. Just talk to people in the audience today And just remember that everyone started somewhere. So even the most, you know accomplished Developer out there or even the most accomplished speaker / persona and whatever pick your programming language stage Started somewhere some people yes started when they were almost starting to walk and were like four or five year olds But most people started later in life and there's tons of success stories of people starting when they were twenty thirty forty fifty there was recently a great article by Quincy Larson, the founder of freeCodeCamp on just that topic Even for experienced developers. Google is your best friend So if you're doubting how to do this, someone else probably have also asked the same question Can I really do what I was tasked to do right now or what I chose to create. So don't be afraid to Google all the time It only seems the haters, it depends a bit about on your family and your friends I've been blessed to not have so many people Questioning why I was learning to code or Why are you learning to code and stuff like this? but I know some people have that issue and it's not easy to just ignore them if they're important part of your life, but don't give their opinions too much value and yes, you can we have again success stories tons of stories here today of people that have dealt with doubt and still have overcome and managed to learn to code Resources. Mentioning this it ties into some of the other things we've discussed When you are faced with doubt or time constraints Also in the beginning but When you are hitting a wall and feeling like Oh freeCodeCamp is maybe not for me or you're doing another online course or you're reading a book and you're getting stuck Don't be afraid to question the resource that you are using to learn to code. I supplemented freeCodeCamp first with "Eloquent JavaScript", a book and then gradually more with Udemy video courses But just don't be afraid to experiment there's tons of free resources, there's tons of cheap courses So the main focus on how to deal with resources is don't be afraid to test out things and switch it up but on the other flipside Don't get too fragmented. Like there's the shiny object syndrome of course You might try to buy every new fancy course and think that that's going to be the "blue pill" that's gonna get you from A to B in two weeks doesn't work like that, but Find something that works for you, and when you find something stick with it It can also help to have a mentor. It's not always so easy to find. In absence of that, costudents can be in my experience really good to just meet regularly at meetups taking initiative to meet people for coffee and some talking about code, you know give each other feedback and to have this Social sort of pressure to when you meet someone the next time. Oh, I should have completed that JavaScript calculator Let me just do that before I meet them tomorrow And pair programming is worth trying if you haven't. There's a lot of online communities where you can meet people and pair program for a session. You can also meet people in real life Pair programming is sitting together with someone else and coding on the same thing on one screen normally Just to not bore you too much I took in a bonus point here An obstacle when learning to code can be vim. If you don't know what vim is, it's a code editor in the terminal It's been around since the beginning of unix times or not so long, but it's been around for a couple of decades and it's infamous for being hard to Exit out of so if you just open it up and you don't know how to exit out of it You probably will not figure out and you close your terminal But this is more of a joke than a real obstacle if you want to know how to exit vim, this is how you exit vim Just to have that included So you literally just do Escape to have the command section and then you have q and exclamation mark but you might be normally fine without the exclamation mark It sounds simple but on the other hand, it sounds may be unnecessary when you just gonna exit something so Let's get back on track Distractions is another thing, as with anything in life, especially with the infamous Millennials and all the distractions we have these days it's easy to sit down and You were going to learn to code today and then two hours later You've been checking everything on YouTube and all the latest JavaScript news or whatever It's a bit tricky one because again for me what helps the most is I realized the one thing I haven't put here I'll mention that but its habits again. If you manage to do stuff for the right reasons and also form the habits that you need to have the routine that works for you Like every morning for 20 minutes At lunch or in the evening before you watch your favorite TV series or whatever That you just stick with some routines and follow them. I like really the routine of just sticking with freeCodeCamp and getting the brownie points if I help people at freeCodeCamp.org Via the chat room you get brownie points when people thank you. I just kind of kept wanting that Statistics of my points to go up that was the motivating force One thing I didn't put up here is that it helps to... no, I got distracted. So I forgot what it was so we'll get back to that Again to the better resources, I think that's the theme of this talk now But if you get distracted it might be because the course is not the best fit for you Maybe you would do better reading a book for an hour than for following something video or maybe Tutorials where you get to do stuff as you go along is better for you and so on and also one thing Actually it is here, but just didn't realize the thing that I forgot is Work on your "why". So if you feel lacking motivation or being distracted too easily. It might be because you're lacking motivation you need to learn to code You might rethink why you're learning to code and if it's really the right thing for you now Maybe it's a better fit in a year to be honest something happened You're like, oh no I need to do this for other reasons, but if you don't either have the passion for programming code These kind of things or you have the right reason to do it, it will be harder It's just a fact so you can still do it. You just need to figure out how to work on that for you I've been blessed that I've been loving computer since I could walk and tap on Keyboards, I just didn't get into programming until recently We'll save the questions for after because we are filming so it's not so easy to take questions during the filming But just keep them if you had some Getting stuck again. We've covered this sort of and we've covered switching up one thing I want to focus on is that if you feel like You were committing to a course or a material and you're like, yeah, but I can't give up I'm so invested in this for whatever reason, it's fine. You can just stop Try something else and it might work you might even return to where you were because you learned something from a different perspective. I had that experience with "Eloquent JavaScript" reading that for several chapters And I got the same things that were explained in freeCodeCamp curriculum in a different way and it was like, "Aha!" Now I felt more equipped to tackle the course afterwards Debugging is a thing where it depends on what you're coding in. It depends a bit on you and how strict you are on debugging with debugging tools in the beginning or not There are different opinions on this. But whichever way you are debugging with your language with your set of tools It helps getting better at Figuring out why your code is not working right now Google, again as we talked about if you're doing frontend the chrome developer tools and getting better at breakpoints and debugging having debugger as a as Variable name or like a method that you hook into your JavaScript and it stops in the browser to give you the To stop in time where you are debugging and those kind of things help If you don't know much about this, and I've had problems coding look into debugging Just google it What helps for me sometimes, and there's been studies done on this, if you are coding and you feel stuck and this could be professionally or learning to code it might be good with the context switch where you just force yourself to be like but I'm in the middle of this I can make this work and then you're an hour later. I can make this work and you're like, okay stop Just take a break 10 to 15 minutes go for a walk, do something entirely different and you might be like but now and then you go back to it or just the fact that you had a break you go back and you look at It with fresh eyes, it very often helps Yeah, Google again Okay, so For one of the last points. I think it's the last obstacle we're going over today is Deflation you might be like Oh Goddamn it. I've I've been trying to learn to code for like one week three months half a year or more and you feel like Yeah, you need some motivation. You're like, maybe it's not for me or whatever In my experience it helps to go to meetups or to socialize with others that also are learning to code. Sometimes it might help to be proactive for me and I also know Daniel It helps to look at motivational talks and documentaries I love these kind of success stories again or seeing like how this you know, seven year old kid that was a programming prodigy got into college early and just conquered the world with his iOS apps and those kind of things and I'm like if he can do that, I can certainly get further in my course material, and stuff like this. Yeah, and ultimately your "why," so if you're if you're kind of stuck ask yourself Why am I doing this and maybe I try to do some self motivation cool Just to make this talk even more exciting. We're hiring at my company. I mentioned this before but we're still hiring a frontend / full stack developer. We're also looking for a backend The profile for both is a bit a little bit more Experienced because yeah, that's the general gist Have a look or send us an email if you are interested, and if you feel you don't have enough experience Feel free to still approach me or send an email or look at the website. It might still be Worth a look for you Yeah, I worked there I do JavaScript frontend stuff with Vue.js mainly at the moment Cool, I think Yes, I think that was it before we end I want to reinforce and I'll follow this up with putting a repo in the comment sessions because I want this talk to be something that people can contribute to I realized giving this talk that there's a lot of repetitiveness and there's some stuff that I could maybe when I talking about it could want to add myself. If people have stuff they would like to add or Feel they can contribute with help on how to overcome obstacles You're free to help With this talk for the future. Thank you very much [applause]
