Hi! I'm Ola and this is coding is for girls ... [ Musik] In all films like "Matrix", "Tron Legacy" or "Mr. Robot" hackers, programmers or administrators just have this black window and they write text very, very fast and computer does magic Well, today I' going to show you something that allows you to feel al little bit like them. and I hope that "Command line" will be your new best friend. When you open your computer, smartphone or tablet everything is shiny and beautiful but it was not allways this way. If you've every seen the older computers They whole interface is textbased. Now when technologic is so much more advanced We can do amazing stuff. We can use mouse, touchpads or touch screens and this is much, much more intuitive. But there are times when using text it's much more powerful and so much easier. But before we will open command line and start to larn something I want you to think first about how a bunch of electronics ends up running amazing programs and displaying compilcated thinks for us. Computers are a little bit like onions They have layers. First lowest core layer is hardware Then we have the second layer, which is operating system So Winwows, linux, iOsX, android, chrome os all of them are operating systems And they are your way to communicate with hardware I like to think about operating systems like something that gives order to hardware For example if you want to save the file on the disk you just give an order to operating system and it does it for you The third layer is applications All your programs like photoshop, finder or internet browser All of these are specialist applications, that you use And there is a fourth layer You, the user I also like to think about computers not only as onions but also like about big corporations. You are boss and you give orders to applications Applications give orders to your operating system And your operating system is giving orders to hardware, that does the work. But imagine that you as the boss want to have mor cotrol over your operating system or applicatios or you want to make so applications to work with each other Well, you will need special skills for that. And command line ist the perfect macht. A differnt operating system calls command line slightly different, but they are pretty much the same thing. It might be calles command line, prompt, console, terminal, shell , bash There are so many names but in fact it's a text interface to give your operating system and applications orders. In the Mac to open command line we need to go to finder, then to applications Utilities and then choose terminal. Don't be afraid to search instructions for your operating system or you can check out our awesome Django Girls tutorial. I'll put the link below in the description, so you can easily acces the correct chapter. Ok, so Command Line is opend. Here you see a little dollar sign It indicates that Command line is waiting for orders You can think about command line like about messenger that is waiting for a boss to give orders and that should takes these orders and make sure that operating system or applications are doing that. Whenever you see $ that meansThe job is done and the Command LIne ist waiting for new orders. Let's first check if the command line knows who you are To do that we will typeWhoami It will return your User name. Nice. So beeing the boss if you want to know what's going on in your company You might want to visit different playes and see what is going on. You probably already know what directory or folder is. Sometimes I like to think about them as physical places. So if you have that file, you can think about them as a piece of paper put in certain building, room, cupboard and shelf. So, if I'm the boss I would like to visit different rooms and see what's going on, whats happening Normally when you use your computer you just use one of the specialised programs like finder or windows explorer to do that. But this time we will do that with Command Line. Let's check in which directory you are right now. Let's type pwd, which is a shortcut "from print working directory". And click Enter. Now we will have displayed complete information Where are you In this case in the "Users" folder in folder "ethlinn" OK, so now time to do some inventory To do that, I will type "ls" from "list" and click Enter. Now we have the list of all the directories and files in here. Applications, desktop documtents and so on. OK, so inspection done. Time to go to some other directory and see what is there. But as like walking trough the building, we need to go trough certain corridors, doors and rooms to go to the certain place. The same is with directories. Let's say we want to go from "ethlinn" to "Desktop". To do that we need to type "cd Desktop" and click Enter. CD stands for "change directory" Now let's check where we are with a command we've alrerady learnt. Now we are in "Users/ethlinn/Desktop Let's make an inventory here, too. If we want to go backwards, we need to type two dots instead of the name of the folder So went back we have to type "cd .." and click Enter. Ok, let's go back once again to "Desktop" directory But let's be lazy this time. We want Command Line to guess what we are trying to do. And command line is pretty good at guessing. If you don't want to type whole complicated directory or file names You could start typing it and than click the TabKey It will try to guess what you want to type And if there's more than one possible match you need to click Tab twice and it will display you the list of options Now let's create a new directory Let's type "mkdir practice", where "practice" is the name of the directory you want to create. And click Enter. This will create an empty directory OK, so let's check if it's there. Type "ls" and yes, it's there. If you still don't believe go ahead and check it in the finder or just in "Desktop". SeeIt's there. Let's go inside the "practise" Folder using "cd practise" If you want to use the same command over and over again. Let's say we want to create folders "practise 2", "practise 3" and "practise 4" Instead of writing everything from scratch over and over again you could use up and down arrows So what we do is click up arrow and then edit "practice" adding numbers 2,3 and 4. OK, let's say that we want to delete some directory completly.To delete a whole directory, we will use command "rm" This is the shortcut for "remove" But first let's go back to the desktop We do "cd .." and now we are in the correct location Ok, so let's type "rm practice" And you should end up with a error. The error is "practice is a directory", which is true We just tried to remove a directory the way we move files, not directories. So what we do instead is typing "rm r practice" "r" means "repository". So we kind of ask your Command Line to do all the work for you. Now let's check if it's gone. Type "ls" Year, it's gone! Ok, so that's it. I showed you the very, very basic commands. Command line is very powerful. I realy encourage you tried it on your own. Hope, you had fun today and you're not super bored and you're ready to start wirting your first python program with me. So next video will be about installing python and telling a little bit, what is a programming language? If you want to learn how to program make sure to subscribe my channel and stay tuned. Have a nice and see you!