So in our previous lesson, we discussed one possible way of storing and representing a graph in which we used two list. One to store the vertices and another to store the edges. A record in vertex list here is name of a node and a record in edge list is an object containing references to the two endpoints of an edge and also the weight of that edge because this example graph that I am showing you here is a weighted graph. We called this kind of representation edge list representation but we realised that this kind of storage is not very efficient in terms of time cost of most frequently performed operations like finding nodes adjacent to a given node or finding if two nodes are connected are not. To perform any of these operations, we need to scan the whole edge list. We need to perform a linear search on the edge list. So the time complexity is big oh of number of edges and we know that number of edges in the graph can be really really large. In worst case it can be close to square of number of vertices. In a graph, anything running in order of number of edges is considered very costly. We often want to keep the cost in order of number of vertices. So we should think of some other efficient design. We should think of something better than this. One more possible design is that we can store the edges in a twodimensional array or matrix. We can have a twodimensional matrix or array of size V*V where V is number of vertices. As you can see, I have drawn an 8*8 array here because number of vertices in my sample graph here is 8. Let's name this array A. Now if we want to store a graph that is unweighted. Let's just remove the weights from this sample graph here and now our graph is unweighted and if we have of value or index between 0 and V1 for each vertex which we have here if we are storing the vertices in a vertex list than we have an index between 0 and V1 for each vertex. We can say that A is zeroth node, B is 1th node, C is 2th node and so on. We are picking up indices from vertex list. Okay so if the graph is unweighted and each vertex has an index between 0 and V1, then in this matrix or 2d array. We can set ith row and jth column that is A[i][j] as 1 or boolean value true. if there is an edge from i to j 0 or false otherwise. If I have to fill this matrix for this example graph here then I'll go vertex by vertex. Vertex 0 is connected to Vertex 1 2 and 3. Vertex 1 is connected to 0, 4 and 5. This is an undirected graph so if we have and edge from 0 to 1, we also have an edge from 1 to 0 so 1th row and 0th column should also be set as 1. Now let's go to nodes 2, it's connected to 0 and 6, 3 is connected to 0 and 7, 4 is connected to 1 and 7, 5 once again is connected to 1 and 7, 6 is connected to 2 and 7 and 7 is connected to 3, 4, 5 and 6. All the remaining positions in this array should be set as 0. Notice that this matrix is symmetric. For an undirected graph, this matrix would be symmetric because A[i][j] would be equal to A[j][i]. We would have two positions filled for each edge. In fact to see all the edges in the graph, we need to go through only one of these two halves. Now this would not be true for our directed graph. Only one position will be filled for each edge and we will have to go through the entire matrix to see all the edges. Okay, now this kind of representation of a graph in which edges or connections are stored in a matrix or 2D array is called adjacency matrix representation. This particular matrix that I have drawn here is an adjacency matrix. Now with this kind of storage or representation, what do you think would be the time cost of finding all nodes adjacent to a given node. Let's say given this vertex list and adjacency matrix, we want to find all nodes adjacent to node named F. If we are given name of a node than we first need to know it's index and to know the index, we will have to scan the vertex list. There is no other way. Once we figured out index like for F index is 5 then we can go to the row with that index in the adjacency matrix and we can scan this complete row to find all the adjacent nodes. Scanning the vertex list to figure it out the index in worst case will cost us time proportional to the number of vertices because in worst case we may have to scan the whole list, and scanning a row in the adjacency matrix would once again cost us time proportional to number of what vertices because in a row we would have exactly V columns where V is number of a vertices. So overall time cost of this operation is big oh of V. Now most of the time while performing operations, we must pass indices to avoid scanning the vertex list all the time. If we know an index, we can figure out the name in constant time, because in an array we can access element at any index in constant time but if we know a name want to figure out index then it will cost us big oh of V. We will have to scan the vertex list. wWe will have to perform linear search on it. Okay moving on. Now what would be the time cost of finding if 2 nodes are connected or not. Now once again the two nodes can be given to us as indices or names. If the nodes would be passed test as indices then we simply need to look at value in a particular row and particular column. We simply need to look at A[I][J] for some values of I and J and this will cost us constant time. You can look at Value in any cell in a twodimensional array in constant time. So if indices are given time complexity of this operation would be big oh of 1 which simply means that we will take constant time but if names are given then we also need to do the scanning to figure out the indices which will cost us big oh of V. Overall time complexity would be Big oh of V. The constant time access would not mean anything. The scanning of vertex list all the time to figure it out indices can be avoided. We can use some extra memory to create a hash table with names and indices as key value pairs and then the time cost of finding index from name would also be big oh of 1 that is constant. Hash table is a data structure and I have not talked about it in any of my lessons so far. If you do not know about hash table, just search online for a basic idea of it. Okay, so as you can see with adjacency matrix representation our time cost of some of the most frequently performed operations is in order of number of vertices and not in order of number of edges which can be as high as square of number of vertices. Okay now if we want to store a weighted graph in adjacency matrix representation then A[i][j] in the matrix can be set as weight of an edge. For nonexistent ages we can have a default value like a really large or maximum possible integer value that is never expected to be an edge weight. I have just filled in infinity have to mean that we can choose the default as infinity minus infinity or any other value that would never ever be a valid edge weight. Okay, now for further discussion I'll come back to an unweighted graph. Ajacency matrix looks really good so should we not use it always. Well, with this design we have improved on time, but we have gone really high on memory usage instead of using memory units exactly equal to the number of edges what we're doing with edge list kind of storage. Here we're using exactly V square units of memory. We are using big oh of V square space. We are not just storing the information that these two nodes are connected, we are also storing not of it that is these two nodes side not connected which probably is redundant information. If a graph is dense, if the number of edges is really close to V square then this is good but if the graph is sparse that is if number of edges is lot lessser than V square then we are wasting a lot of memory in storing the zeros. Like for this example graph that I have drawn here, in the edge list we were consuming 10 units of memory we had ten rows consumed in the edge list but here we are consuming 64 unit. Most graphs with really large number of vertices would not be very dense, would not have number of edges anywhere close to V sqaure like for example, Let's say we are modeling a social network like Facebook as a graph such that a user in the network is a node and there is an undetected edge if two users are friends. Facebook has a billion users but I'm showing only a few in my example graph here because I'm short of space. Let's just assume that we have a billion users in our network, so number of vertices in a graph is 10 to the power 9 which is billion. Now do you think number of connections in our social network can ever be close to square of number of users that will mean everyone in the network is a friend of everyone else. A user of our social network will not be friend to all other billion users. We can safely assume that a user on an average would not have more than a thousand friends with this assumption we would have 10 to the power 12 edges in our graph. Actually, this is an undirected graph so we should do a divide by 2 here. So that we do not count an edge twice. So if average number of friends is 1000 then total number of connections in my graph is 5 * 10 to power 11. Now this is lot lesser than a square of number of vertices. So basically if you would use an adjacency matrix for this kind of a graph, we would waste a hell lot of space and moreover even if we are not looking in relative terms 10 to the power 18 units of memory, even in absolute sense is alot. 10 to the power 18 bytes would be about a 1000 petabytes. Now this really is a lot of space. This much data would never ever fit on one physical disk. 5 into 10 to the power 11 byts on the other hand it's just 0.5 terabytes. A typical personal computer these days would have this much of storage. So as you can see for something like a large social graph adjacency matrix representation is not very efficient. Agency matrix is good when a graph is dense that is when the number of edges is close to square of number of vertices or sometimes when total number of possible connection that is V square is so less that wasted space would not even matter but most realworld graphs would be sparse and adjacency matrix would not be a good fit. Let's think about another example. Let's think about world wide web as are directed graph. If you can think of web pages as nodes in a graph and hyperlinks as directed edges then a webpage would not have linked to all other pages and once again number of webpages would be in order of millions. A webpage would have link to only the a few other pages, so the graph would be sparse. Most real world graphs would be sparse and adjacency matrix. Even though it's giving us good running time for most frequently performed operations would not be a good fit because it's not very efficient in terms of space so what should we do. Well there's another representation that gives us similar or maybe even better running time than adjacency matrix and does not consume so much space It's called adjacency list representation and we will talk about it in our next lesson. This is it for this lesson. Thanks for watching