Over the past eight months, I worked on and built a tech startup completely from scratch. That startup is called Velocity and today we are finally released our finished product. Now you can download this for free from the Apple App Store or the Google Play Store and use the invite code tech with Tim if you want to try it out. We're at a very early stage, or at least right now. We're only letting on a few thousand people. So if you want to try out the app, then again you can download that from the link in the description. Now what I'm going to do in this video is show you the final product of what I built, as well as give you some information about how we actually got to this place. This has been a long journey. There's been countless hours, countless sleepless nights that have gone into this app. And I want to walk you through everything from investment, kind of building the original team and then going through the development cycle and actually coming up with what you're going to see here, which is our finished product. Now, first of all, let me give you a quick summary of what velocity is. So velocity as a company is focused on cognitive training for amateur athletes. Our main goal is to democratize the access to cognitive training resources. Right now, only professional athletes or very rich athletes have access to this kind of training, and we want to provide that for free. So we've created a mobile application that contains a ton of fun mini games that you can play and compete against with other athletes. These are meant to train different cognitive functions. I will show you those functions as we go through the video and I demo the app. But right now you can download the app again. You can use the invite code tech with Tim. You can check it out for yourself and you can see that we have at this point, I believe, 22 different games. We're constantly going to be adding more. And one of the unique features of our app is that not only are you going to be training different cognitive functions, playing through these games and improving, but you can view advanced analytics data and compare yourself to everyone else that is playing on the app. So there is a global leaderboard, there is a team leaderboard which which is going to show you sorry the score for all of the tech with Tim viewers. So all the people that joined using the invite code that I shared, which is tech with Tim, you're able to follow people. There's kind of a social component to the app and we're really focused on competition because as athletes, that's what you do. You compete now, even though this is for athletes, really, anyone can use this app. We've been doing some internal testing and pretty much all the people that are using the app right now are not actually athletes. They're enjoying it a ton and I want you guys to check it out, download it from the link in the description. Let me know what you think in the comments. You can also leave feedback directly in the app. So that's kind of the overall, let's say, vision or goal of the company. Now what I will do is kind of demo the app for you, give you a quick walk through, kind of show you some of the features and some of the games. And then I'm going to kind of get into the story and explain you know, how velocity came to be. All right. So I've got the app open on my phone here, and I'm just going to go through a quick demo and kind of show you some of the core features. Obviously, feel free to explore this on your own. I won't go through everything, but I'll share with you kind of the important stuff. So once you go through the onboarding process, you've got into the app, you're going to be brought to this home page. I'll just throw this up on the screen so you guys can see what I'm doing. Now, the first thing you want to be aware of here is that velocity is very kind of focused around competitions competing against people and seeing how you stack up, seeing how your score compares to other people. So the way we've done this is every single day you're going to have three tournament games. Now, these are the games that actually count towards your global ranking and your team ranking, and they're going to be reset approximately every 30 days. We have different seasons like you would have in any other kind of video game or, I don't know, app, whatever you want to call it. So every 30 days or so we're going to reset the rankings. But within that 30 day period, you're going to be climbing a leaderboard based on how you perform in the daily tournament. So if I click play here, you can see that we have three games. These games change every single day and you need to complete these games, get the highest score you possibly can, and that's what really counts. Now, of course, you can practice these games before you actually lock in your tournament score. But the idea is, just like in athletics, you have a few games that really matter and then you have all of your practice. So you practice as much as you want and then you play these main games again. This is what really counts towards your final score. So at this point I haven't played any of the tournament games. I've just kind of gone on a fresh count here. But if I had that kind of be checked off and they'd tell me, okay, you could continue training from there. So that's a tournament. That's what you want to do every single day to make sure you're a contender. On the leaderboard continuing, we have a little settings menu here. So if you click this kind of three lines, it'll pop this open. You can change your notification settings and importantly, you can go here to submit feedback and you can submit feedback directly to me. So if you have any feedback about the app, any bugs issues, it is possible there is some of them. This is a brand new app. We just released it. Please submit it directly through the app or leave a comment and I will address it as fast as possible. Okay. Continuing you have the season now again every 30 days or so we're going to reset the rankings and new season will start at the end of the season based on how you place, you're going to be given different rewards. So in this case, we only had a few users because we were doing some internal testing. So we just had one season reward for the top three players. However, if you were in the top ten, 15, 100, whatever we do later on, then you will get a reward as well. Okay, so let's get out of that and let's go to the skills page and the skills pages where you can access all of the individual games and you can practice outside of the daily tournament. So here we have our different categories for games and these are based on the core cognitive functions that we're training memory, attention, decision, vision and space. So if I click into memory, you can see that we have some games now. Some of the games are premium, meaning we do have a premium version. You can pay for that to get access to advanced analytics, more games, etc.. For now, though, every category has two free games. You can play those as much as you want, and if I click into one here, you can kind of see that it would show you any recent scores you have. I don't have any because this is a brand new kind of account that I'm on. And then if you have the premium version, you'd be able to view some advanced analytics. Okay, so I'm not going to play one right now, but just showing you that's some of the games, again, you can kind of click into the different categories and you can see some of the different games that we have. All right. You can also access the daily tournament from here. And then if you scroll down, you're going to get a list of all of the different achievements. These are sneakers that you can unlock later on, will have some kind of tactical use for these items. For now, though, this is kind of just a flex. You get to put it on your profile. You can share it with people. I'll show you that in a second. But you can click into one of these items, see your progress, see the rarity of the item. And again, later down the line we'll have different items, characters, etc.. For now, though, these are kind of just different achievements you can unlock in the game. All right. Continuing, we go to the leaderboard now. The leaderboard is probably the most important part here. This is where you get to see how you rank globally. So you can see right now I am ranked 12th and then you get to see the top ten users. This leaderboard is updated every 24 hours. So it is going to have still data every 24 hours. It will be refreshed so it's not live updating. Just keep that in mind anyways. You can click into someone's profile here by just clicking directly on them and then you get to see their level what shoe they're wearing. You can click on their shoe and you can view their entire locker this all of the shoes that they've unlocked. And then of course you can view other information about them. You can follow them. That means you can always stay up to date with their score and kind of everything that they're doing here. And then, of course, you can view the number of games, their rank and all that other information like their category stats later on will be allowing you to directly compare yourself to this player if you have the premium version. Okay, so that's kind of it for the main leaderboard. Then we have the team leaderboard. Now the team leaderboard is going to show you the top 50 players on your team. For now, the team is just all of the players that joined using the same invite code as you. So any of you that joined using the tech with Tim invite code, you're going to be on this team. You'll be able to see the top 50 tech with Tim players in this case probably a bunch of programmers. Again, this is updated every single day. So you have your global leaderboard, team leaderboard and then the leaderboard for anyone you're following. So you can see how you rank up against your followers. And you can also see kind of how all of the different followers are, what their ranks are, stats, etc. If you want to search for a user, go to search. You can search for them by username. So let me search for our founder, which is Robot Fred and you can view all of his games, stats, etc. and then follow him. Let's get out of that and let's go to the lock. So this is the shoe locker. This is where you're going to unlock all of your different items. What you can do is equip a different item. So if I click on my Alpha one tester shoe, which is a shoe I got from being kind of an internal tester, we had a closed kind of testing round. Then I can lace this shoe up and then that she's going to be shown on my profile and kind of show people that I'm wearing that continuing. You can view all of the different locked shoes. This only shows the shoes that are kind of based on an achievement. There's also some special shoes. I'm not going to describe how you get those right now. That's kind of something you guys can figure out. Okay, that's a shoe locker. We also have a place where you can view all of your unclaimed rewards. So if you want a season reward, you have to claim that you could go here, it would show up and then you could claim that. Season reward continuing. We have your profile so you can see what shoe you're currently wearing. View information like your bio, different teams you play for. Of course, you can edit your profile by going to this page and then you can view your stats. So here from the stats you get to view your global rank, the total number of games you've played the current season, the score, tournament game score. You get to view advanced analytics. If you have the premium version, you can see the overall skill and then you can view how you perform in each category. I just started this account have only played one game, so you can see only have one category score. And then this would show you how you ranked in previous seasons as well. All right. So that's pretty much it for the main app functionality. Now what I'm going to do is just play one of my favorite games. This is called What's In Your Locker. It's a memory game. We have a ton of different games. Please feel free to try them out, but I'll play through this one. So for every single game we have a tutorial you can view how to play in this one. You just have to remember the items that are in your locker and these games will get progressively more difficult as you get better at them and you play them more. Now I'm a bit distracted right now, so we'll see how well I perform. Okay. I think it was either skates or the helmet. I think it was the helmet. Okay, correct. And trust me, these games look simple, but they're actually a lot more difficult. So, you know, try them out, let me know how you guys do. But I've had some people comment and tell me how difficult some of them are in that, you know, they can't even get up to the next difficulty level. They just keep dropping because, you know, they're struggling with them. But that's fine. That's kind of the point of having this. I'm now going to mess this one up because I'm trying to talk to the camera while playing this, and they do require a fair amount of focus. Okay. Soccer ball, baseball bat, football. Right. Soccer ball, baseball, bat football. Okay. Very good. And you guys get the idea. I want to play through the entire game, but if you were to play through the entire game, you'd be brought to a score page. It would kind of tell you what your score was. You could then view how that score compared to other people, etc.. Okay, so that is the general walkthrough of the app. Please feel free to check it out. It's free. Can download it from the link in the description. Use the invite code tech with Tim. Now let me give you a quick kind of brief story on kind of how we created this app. All right. So now what I'm going to do is just give you a really quick kind of summary of how velocity came to be, how I joined this company and the process over the past eight months. I'm going to do a much longer video on this in the future. Let me know if you have any specific questions in the comments that I can address in that future video. For now, though, let me just give you kind of, you know, the brief story. So Velocity was actually founded almost a year ago, and it was founded by our founder, whose name is Fred. Now, Fred is a close friend of mine. I've known him for a while, and after he kind of got the general vision idea for the company, had done some of the legal stuff and just kind of got it off the ground. No development at this point. Just kind of, you know, the main stages, beginning stage of the company. He came to me and asked if I wanted to join as the lead developer and a cofounder. So at that point I did decide to join. I kind of started, you know, slightly part time. And this is when we were still figuring out the stock option agreement, all of that different legal stuff, you know, in terms of investments, how much money I was going to bring to the table, how much money he had, how we were going to raise money, etc.. So all of that kind of started at the beginning. I can talk more about that in a future video anyways. Once all of that was sorted out, then I just got started coding right away. Now at this point we didn't really know exactly what we were going to be building, but I just want to start building authentication system. I wanted to get at least kind of a base of the application done. Now before I could do that, obviously I had to pick a tech stack. I decided to go with React Native and Firebase just because this was the fastest way for me to possibly make this app. And really, we were focused on speed with the idea that later down the line we could hire more people if we could raise more money, and then we could kind of, you know, change anything that we needed to. But for now, let's just try to get it out. Let's go as fast as we possibly can. I was comfortable with kind of react native Firebase Stack, so that's what I decided to go with. Yes, I could have gone with Flutter. There was a million other options, but I chose this and at this point I do not regret that decision. Anyways, started building all of that kind of stuff out. And while we were doing this in kind of the preliminary stages of development before we got super serious about UI and back end and all that kind of stuff, we were raising money. We were going to friends and family, different investors that we knew, and we raised a modest amount of money. And probably the first two or three months that I joined the company. I can't share with you exactly how much that was. I will tell you that it was less than $1,000,000, but it was definitely enough for us to survive for a few years if we made no money because our company spends a very small amount of money. Me and the founder are essentially working for free right now, and only if the app actually starts generating some income. We raise some additional investment. Then we will get picked. So that was kind of the beginning stages. Now at this point, you know, we had a little bit of money. The app had a basic kind of structure to it, and I was ready to start bringing on some additional developers to do the work that I wasn't comfortable doing or that I wasn't skilled enough to do. So in that case, it was game development. So we ended up hiring three game developers and we built at this point in time, I believe we are about 23 or 24 games. Not all of them are in the app right now, but we started doing that maybe five or six months ago. We went through a few iterations of some game developers that didn't quite work for us until eventually we got some great ones which actually hired from this audience on one of those YouTube videos that I posted. So we got some game developers going, This is great. They were kind of part time asynchronously building games while I was building the main core of the application. And then at the same time we had hired a UI designer. Now this was someone we paid just kind of a flat contract to design the entire application for us. They did a fantastic job, at least I think so. You guys can let me know in the comments down below and then any pages they didn't design for us, we could kind of infer what they would look like based on the theme and style that we already had. So we got a really solid kind of structure and base to the app, and then from there we kind of just, you know, came up with the additional pages. They probably could use a UI review considering I was the one designing most of those pages. But regardless, I think it looks pretty good and I'm happy with it. So far that was kind of the general structure, right start out slow, started kind of raising money, figuring out what we need to do, more high level planning, kind of determining the different core features that we wanted to have, like the leaderboard, the daily tournaments, building the back end infrastructure for all of that, and then hiring the UI designer, getting a few game developers. I got a little bit of help on the main app, but I'd say about 95% of that code, like the main structure of the app, was built by me as well as the backend. And then we kind of just started rolling, we got into a flow, started doing a ton of stuff, and then while I was doing all of this, our founder, who is not technical, was doing all of the marketing related stuff, building all of the relationships, talking to potential investors, handling the entire business side and letting me focus on what I'm good at, which is development. So with all that said, that has led to the final product that you see today. There has been a tremendous amount of work that has gone into this. I have learned a ton over the past eight months. I want to share with you guys regularly over the next months kind of how the release goes, share with you some analytics users, all that kind of stuff and you know, be pretty open with you. On how kind of the startup is going and hopefully make a series on this channel about it. Let me know what you guys think about that. Please download the app. Support us by leaving a review. Let me know any feedback, good or bad, that you have in the comments down below. I will continue to update you kind of as velocity evolves and grows and grows and grows and hopefully in a few years you guys can say that you knew the founder of Velocity. Anyways, with that said, I hope you guys enjoy the video. If you did make sure they like subscribe the channel. I will see you in another one.