Quincy (0000.772) Welcome back to the freeCodeCamp podcast. I'm Quincy Larson, teacher and founder of freeCodeCamp. And each week we talk with developers, entrepreneurs, and ambitious people who are getting into tech. Today, I'm joined by Beau Carnes. He is a software engineer. He is a teacher, and he oversees the freeCodeCamp YouTube channel. He's joining us from Grand Rapids, Michigan, USA. So welcome, Beau. Beau (0032.566) Hey Quincy, thanks for having me on! Quincy (0035.024) Yeah, we're stoked to have you here. And since this is our first video podcast, I created a very quick theme song for the freeCodeCamp podcast, which I am gonna attempt to play right now. Quincy (0051.652) Free code. took him podcast with Quince and Lars. All right. So let me turn off my amp there. And, and we're going to dive into the interview. So of course, Beau you've worked with FreeCodeCamp for like five years or something like that. So you and I have so much shared context. We've talked hundreds of hours probably, but we're going to attempt to like dive deeper into your background. Beau (0101.707) Nice. Beau (0117.151) Yup. Quincy (0128.516) Maybe we can start off by talking about your childhood and like where you grew up. Beau (0134.854) Yeah, sure. I grew up in Michigan, in Portage, Michigan. It's just about an hour away from where I'm living now. And I, one thing that kind of, there's a few things that actually relate to what I'm doing now, which is, my dad got me a QBasic book when I think I was in maybe middle school or I can't even remember exactly how old I was. And then I would do it like I think it was called GW Basic on my computer. And it was basically just for fun. I never even really thought about it as a job at that time. And then in high school, I was actually in a video production class and that actually got me into doing video. And at the time I had no, obviously I had no idea what was coming, what I was going to be doing later in life. But just looking back on those two experiences actually impacted me a lot as far as my direction and where I'm at now. Quincy (0232.696) Yeah, I can imagine. And I didn't realize that you grew up in Michigan. There's this like general kind of rule that like most people live within four hours of where their mom lives, at least in America. That's like people, Americans will move up to four hours away from their mom. And that's like the farthest they'll generally move. And that's true for me. I live in Dallas, Texas. And of course I grew up in Oklahoma city, which is slightly less than four hours drive away. So I think it's interesting that you grew up just an hour away from where you ultimately settled and bought your home and started your family. Beau (0307.49) Yeah. Quincy (0307.494) So that's really cool. Yeah, and speaking of family, you've got a pretty big family. You've got several kids, three kids, right? Beau (0315.478) Yeah, I have three kids. My oldest is 11, my youngest is six and a half. And they're all boys, they're very energetic. And that's one of my favorite things to do is just to hang out with my kids. Quincy (0330.584) Yeah. So family man, Beau cards. Well, um, I want to dive into, of course, uh, we can learn a lot more about your interesting personal life, but I think for people that have watched the free cocamp YouTube channel, you've probably seen Beau doing the introductions for most of the video courses that you publish and Beau himself, you probably taught. I don't know, at least a dozen different courses, maybe two dozen on different WordPress concepts. MongoDB, lots of Python related courses. You taught the very popular JavaScript course that's on freeCodeCamp. I was surprised to learn that you actually have a formal educational background in video production. Maybe you can tell us a little bit about that and what inspired you to go down that route. Beau (0418.814) Yeah, sure. I kind of talked a little bit about it when I took the video production class in high school. And that's actually my first degree. I got a bachelor's degree in video production at a traditional four year school in Michigan. And I actually worked in video production for a little while. And then I kind of decided I wanted a job where I was interacting with people more, making more of an impact. And I decided to go back to school for teaching. and I was an elementary school teacher and I taught all the way up through high school. And I really enjoyed that for a little while. And I guess most teachers, I guess the average length is about five years that they're a teacher. And after about five years, I started thinking about some other things. I think I got a little bit burnt out on that. And I really like working with youth, but I wanted to do it kind of on the side and not as my fulltime job. And that's when I kind of decided to pursue software development where I never thought about it previously, but I had a little bit of experience when I was younger, like I was saying, and I got a degree in software development. And now I'd never really thought about this at the time, but now I realize I'm kind of combining all of those things, video production, teaching and software all when it comes to like teaching courses on YouTube. Quincy (0542.873) Yeah, it's It's hard to imagine like a better type of, you know, job for you than running the free code camp community, YouTube channel, because you do get to not only be a teacher, but you get to also work with other teachers. And at the same time, you get to apply all your software engineering knowhow from working as an engineer and also from, uh, of course, like going to this computer science program, your computer science program was, uh, I guess nontraditional in the sense that it's an undergraduate degree program, but you were able to complete it. quickly and very inexpensively and you did that through Western Governors University and I'm in the show notes the description below I've linked to an article where you talk about essentially how you like completed the entire degree in about six months maybe you can give us some background and how you were able to do that Beau (0620.035) Mmhmm. Beau (0634.77) Yeah, so one cool thing about Western Governors University is that you kind of can go at your own pace. So every class either has a final exam, where to usually take it like an exam center, or a final project that's graded by some graders. And if you pass the exam or pass the final project, you can pass the course. And you can basically work at your own pace. So if you want, you can go do it very, very quickly. And I already talked about how it's kind of burnt out on teaching, I was just very motivated to move on to something new. And that kind of gave me the motivation to basically go as quickly as possible through this degree. So I just really scheduled out my day where I had a very strict schedule of when I was gonna work on my coursework and I was able to stick to that schedule really well. And I had every, I had very distinct goals. Like I'm gonna... pass this class by this date, this class by this date, and I would kind of rearrange, like if I felt like, oh, I'm not gonna meet my goal, then I would either maybe stay up later, maybe not do something with friends, or there were actually a few times where I took a day off of work as a teacher just so I could meet my goal to pass the class by a certain deadline. So I just like got through it super quick, and you pay for every six months. So I only had to pay for one, one six month period, because I was able to get through it so quickly. It did help. I did have some classes transfer in, and I did have, I guess, a little bit of prior knowledge in programming. So that kind of helped a little bit too. Quincy (0816.184) Yeah, and my understanding is one of the reasons you were doing this was because as a teacher, you had student loan debt forgiveness after a certain amount of service as a teacher in the public school system. Beau (0851.833) Uh, yeah, I should actually get some more student loans so I can get them forgiven. And the truth is that I don't know for sure if I would have ever done the degree in software development if I didn't have that motivating me. At first I was actually thinking about doing a master's in mathematics. I thought that would actually kind of go along with what I was already doing. Maybe would open up to a teacher to community college, but I ended up switching to software development and I'm really glad I did my current role. Quincy (0926.328) Yeah. Wow. So essentially you kind of got a free accredited computer science degree in six months because it was money that you didn't ultimately have to spend out of pocket because it was, it was already on the, on the, I guess, chopping block for getting, uh, reimbursed essentially by the government. Yeah, that's pretty cool. It's very resourceful. And I think that like hints to the general resourcefulness. Beau (0945.598) Yeah, that's true. Quincy (0953.008) of Beau Carnes in general. Like you're an extremely like scrappy, make do with little type guy. And that's always kind of like impress me about you. I I've really enjoyed like reading about you and like the newspaper, for example, like I think what city were you living in where you were able to like, uh, move into like a, an old home and like fix it up. And, uh, I know that I read about it in like a local newspaper cause I was like Googling you at one point. Beau (1010.702) I'm sorry. Beau (1022.307) Yeah, yeah, yeah. So yeah, we used to live in Saginaw and in both Saginaw and Grand Rapids, we did kind of choose to live in kind of a more lower income neighborhood. And I've both places I've kind of gotten involved with a local community center. Like in Grand Rapids, I'm on the board of directors of this local community center that's doing a lot of work with the youth in the neighborhood. I try to volunteer there. So I just I guess I just have a desire to use my time to kind of give back to others, especially youth. And yeah, there was an article when we were in Saginaw, back when there was a printed newspaper, we had an article in the printed newspaper about what we were doing in Saginaw. Quincy (1110.468) Yeah, well, your desire to continue to teach, of course, comes through in the YouTube channel. But my understanding is you also run a my daughter's like scowling at me. She's scowling. Take my phone here. You want my phone? All right. Here. I'll just leave it here. She loves to take it and then watch Zelda tears of the kingdom related videos. Um, so. Beau (1135.998) I've been playing with that with my kids right now. We always have like a family game that we do with the kids or something that we do like a few times a week and we're doing Tears of the Kingdom right now. Quincy (1146.364) Awesome. Yeah, I've heard it's an amazing game, like a sandbox type game where you can just Beau (1149.842) Yeah, we just take turns playing. We all watch and then we kind of take turns. Like the kids will play, then I'll play. So, yeah. Quincy (1153.24) Yeah, that's pretty cool. Yeah. And we did that with breath of the wild, but I just got some burnt ones, although let me do like anything else. So I haven't played tears of the kingdom at all. And it gives me like, kind of like a nice like they'll come in and say, daddy, can you help me beat this boss? Like, I've never even played that game. It's like the get out of jail free card so I can keep working while they while they play on their switch. But um, Beau (1201.868) Yeah. Quincy (1218.316) One of the things that is really cool because you seem to have this desire to help out in the community and also to teach kids is that you're also still actively involved in robotics, um, in robotics club and, and teaching youth, uh, about like programming and robotics through, through this. Can you talk about that a little bit? Beau (1239.174) Yeah, yeah. So for quite a while, like back when I was in SAG and I started this before I even had kids of my own actually, uh, coaching a FIRST Robotics team. So FIRST Robotics, um, is a, an organization that's basically all over the world and they do local robotics competitions and there's different levels. There's like elementary school level, middle school level, high school level. And so I've been coaching teams for quite a while now, including this year, I coached a team. And so now I get to actually coach the teams that my kids are on. So when I first started, I was coaching just only other people, other kids from other families, which I still enjoyed. And now it's kind of my kids are old enough to be able to be on teams. And so it's something I really enjoy doing where there's kind of different levels. This year, it was the first Lego league where we build a Lego robot. And then there's a... eight foot by four foot table with all these stations on it. And there's, we have to program a robot to accomplish objectives at different stations. And then at the competition, all the schools have been basically preparing their robots to do the exact same, uh, the exact same object, objectives. And then we see at the competition who can score the most points by doing all the objectives on the table. And it's all autonomous. You have to preprogram the robot. So you can't really control it with a controller. And so it kind of uses, it helps the kids learn programming. So I'm able to kind of use some of my programming skills and teaching skills to be able to teach the kids how to do some basic programming with the robots. Quincy (1417.552) Yeah. Well, what are you focused on now? What are your major projects now? Beau (1425.782) Oh, yeah, I mean, I guess you mean with Freeco Camp, outside of Freeco Camp, or both? Quincy (1438.004) Sorry. I was trying really hard not to have a coughing fit because now I have to like edit this. Um, yeah, the best editing is when you don't need to do any editing. Beau (1444.77) Ha ha. Beau (1450.743) Uh huh. Quincy (1454.16) So let me take two minutes. I'll be right back. Beau (1500.08) Okay. Quincy (1631.368) Hi, Beau. Sorry I'm back. And hopefully the coughing doesn't... I mean, I've been coughing like crazy for two weeks, basically. Really for like a month. But... Quincy (1644.476) Hopefully it doesn't completely derail the conversation. I was actually struggling when you were asking a question, trying to figure out how to mute. Beau (1656.334) I just realized that I was on mute. I forgot that I had muted. Quincy (1701.647) Do you know whether there's a hockey I mean you just cuz Beau (1704.636) Um, I don't know. I just clicked that mute button. I don't know if there's a key that does it Quincy (1710.276) There should be a... Beau (1715.223) Cough. Quincy (1715.824) hockey sorry uh... we're gonna get all of this out Beau (1719.113) Mmhmm. Quincy (1727.816) I mean the plus one, they don't have a keyboard shortcut. Beau (1731.606) Yeah, it seems like there should be one. Quincy (1733.496) Yeah, because it's like weird to like have to like look around and like on something but yeah, okay I guess they think their software is so good that like it shouldn't need a mute because it'll just be smart enough to not. Okay. So let me ask you that most recent question. I was just trying to say a quick short question because I could feel the cough coming on and I didn't want to. I wanted to give you a second to talk while I was coughing. So if I'm clearly coughing, just keep talking and Okay. Beau (1802.944) Okay. Quincy (1809.636) So we were talking about your robotics club. And I know you have a passion for robots in general. And in fact, you, in addition to being father of three and running the Freeco Camp Community YouTube channel, you have another channel, which is quite popular, called Robot Family. Maybe you could talk a little bit about the origin of that channel and what your goals are with it. Beau (1834.706) Yeah, so I have this channel called Robot Family. It's the target audience is families and basically a younger audience. And I primarily feature fun scripted stories with robot toys as characters. And I started it probably about five years ago. I just had a robot named Cosmo. It's just like a cool robot toy. And I had the idea. I wanted to, I want, basically I wanted something fun to do with my kids. And I also wanted to see if there's some, if I could eventually get companies to send our family free robots for our kids to use. And it's worked out exactly like that, exactly as planned. So I started this channel and we started by doing it. First we were just like, I was buying robots and we were doing kind of unboxings and showing them and pretty quickly. I was able to get companies to send us some robots for the channel. And then eventually we kind of transitioned to not, we started, eventually we don't do unboxings anymore. We just do these fun scripted stories with the robots as characters. And it's the channels continue to grow. It has over 250,000 subscribers now. And I'm, and even this year I'm kind of trying to bring it to the next level basically. where like I was started, I was, I've been kind of, uh, relative, sometimes inconsistent with the posting schedule, but I already have a goal this year to schedule, to post one a year. And I'm just trying, or no, what, one, one video a month, one main video a month. And then maybe some other like minor, like less, less time intensive videos where in the past, sometimes it wasn't even that many videos. And so now I actually, I'm developing a better system. where I'm now hiring people to write the videos and hiring people to edit the videos. So I just have to suit the videos and that allows me to kind of put out more content. It would be one thing if I was doing it full time but since it's just like a side project I don't have like all the time to kind of invest in it. So I try to figure out how can I make my time like stretch more where what can I do that what things can I hire out so I can basically produce more content. Beau (2057.639) So it's been going pretty well. Quincy (2059.384) Yeah, and it's interesting that you're finding people to help you with that. Have you, uh, being somebody who's interested in robotics and automation, have you, uh, made use of automation very much for running or, um, you know, any aspect of the production of that channel? Beau (2119.222) Um, no, I think I haven't done a lot of automating things besides just like, like I said, trying to kind of get a good system for how I can, um, have someone write it, have someone edit. And then once, once I It was hard to implement a system of having people help at first because the way I was shooting the videos It was very hard to have someone edit it based on how I was shooting the videos because I had to remember all these things In my head, but then I realized I'm gonna actually have to really change the system so it can be more efficient So that's not really automating but it's kind of related where really thinking about the system in place That's gonna make the process go smoother and easier Quincy (2206.776) Awesome. Yeah, well, I like to think of it as like you can delegate and you can automate and like either of those two things can help you ultimately concentrate on whatever it is that you're kind of where you're adding the most value to whatever the output is. Beau (2226.13) I guess the thing that's closest to automating was, I do use ChatGP to help with the channel. Like ChatGP will help me think of script ideas. I've even written a few videos with ChatGPT. I did one where we had a, we have a yearly tradition of a Christmas video where our kids are in, our kids aren't in all the videos, but they are in some videos. And we have a weekly, yearly Christmas tradition where the all the presents get stolen and it's a mystery to see how to find the presents. So we just had our fourth annual and this year I was kind of inspired by like the night before Christmas and these other poems and I was like, what if, what if the entire video was rhyming couplets? So I actually, um, I got the, I got a script, I actually hired someone to write a script and then I put it into chat GPT and said, convert this to rhymes. So then it converted the script to all rhyming couplets. And then I had to do some tweaking to make some parts sound better, but I realized that's actually a good use out of ChatGPT to convert something into rhymes. And then the whole video is a rhyming video. Quincy (2334.512) Yeah. Very cool. Yeah, that's a, that's the first time I've heard of someone basically taking a script teaching as a discipline is that you yourself have to have really good mastery of the subject before you can really teach it. And in some ways, teaching further solidifies your own understanding of it. What have you really enjoyed the most about teaching and about preparing like instructional design, essentially video courses, putting them out there. Beau (2426.23) Yeah, you're right that teaching can help you learn things. And that's actually how I learned JavaScript kind of, I mean, I had already kind of gone, when I was first learning the code, I had already went through a lot of the free code camp curriculum. That's actually the main way I learned JavaScript. But then I decided to start my own personal YouTube channel before I was involved with free code camp, where I would teach little bits of JavaScript. It's called JS nuggets. And every video is like a different JavaScript concept. And that's really how I really started to learn JavaScript. It was like, I knew, I already kind of knew, knew about it, but to actually teach it, I had to research and make sure, make sure I really understood it to be able to actually teach it to other people. And that's kind of continued as I work with the FreeCodeCamp channel and create courses, um, I definitely obviously have to know the content before I'm able to teach it. And so it's kind of a great. motivator to learn new technologies and to learn new things. When I know I'm going to teach a course on this topic, so I have to kind of deep dive into the content, the topic. I have to kind of try out myself and really kind of come to a good understanding before I could teach it to others. So that's one of the things I like about creating courses is just learning new things and solidifying my knowledge. Quincy (2549.882) Yeah. Beau (2550.01) and then just being able to help others by being able to kind of share what I've learned about that technology. Quincy (2556.424) So in a way, the fact that the course has to come out is kind of like an extrinsic motivator for you to really understand things and make sure you're getting things right. Because when you publish a video course, it's not like publishing an article where somebody points it out and you can just go easily update it. It's pretty hard to update YouTube videos. YouTube is pretty unforgiving in terms of being able to do like in situ edits, right? Have you experienced a situation where you got something wrong on YouTube and like, what did you do? Beau (2633.27) Well, that's definitely a motivator to, when you learn something on your own, and you're using it, and if you make a little mistake, nobody really knows you made that mistake. But if you're learning something to teach a course about it, and then you make the course, if you make mistake, everyone knows that you made that mistake. So that kind of motivates you to make sure you have it right. But definitely I've still made mistakes. I've created courses that had errors in it, and then people, you know, they're always quick to point them out in the comments. But I think it's kind of a growing experience, you know? I mean, it's, well, first of all, it is kind of embarrassing to put out there like and do something wrong. But my goal is to kind of learn from everybody. And so I tried, if people are pointing that out, I try to kind of, I try to internalize that and actually try to learn from, instead of getting defensive, I really try to learn. And then I... Sometimes if it's on a on a video I can either put on the description or a comment how to like what the mistake was or YouTube did kind of recently come out with a feature called corrections where you can make it so a card pops up To say when there's a correction in the video Quincy (2748.824) Yeah, you can't actually change the video itself, although you could edit that section out completely, right? Beau (2754.566) Yeah, so YouTube does have a feature where you can remove sections of a video, but you can never add sections of a video. Quincy (2801.7) Yeah. So, and even if you're doing this, I mean, let's say you publish something on free code camp, which, you know, has a lot of people watching it every day. And you, it's a multi hour course and you need to make some sort of edit where you remove something that is factually incorrect or something like that. It takes a while for that change to propagate through YouTube. And meantime, in the meantime, it could be hours and hours, thousands of people watching something that you know is wrong, right? It. Beau (2824.119) Mmhmm. Quincy (2831.781) That happens sometimes. Beau (2834.482) Yeah, yeah. So yeah, if you make it if you remove a section with the YouTube editor, it can take a few hours before the new version shows up. And there are there have been times I don't know if with any of my videos, but there have definitely been times where we've posted a course and a mistake, we'll realize a mistake, and then we take it down and re republish it. And sometimes the mistake isn't from the course creator. Sometimes the mistake is on my end where Putting the course together or some contributors to the free cocamp channel. Just give me a video That's already ready to post but then some contributors Will give like a lots of little videos I have to edit together some course that we publish require a lot more work on my end than others and Every once in a while there I will do something wrong and we'll have to take the course down and republish it But luckily it doesn't happen too often But that's always an option that we can remove a course and republish it, but we don't like to do that. Quincy (2938.564) Yeah. Well, one of the things about Free CoCamps YouTube channel, this a little bit unique on YouTube is the sheer size of the courses we're publishing. A lot of creators will publish like 20 minute videos, maybe even one hour video essays, but it's pretty rare that people are uploading a, you know, eight hour course or something like that to YouTube and Over the years, you figured out lots of compression tricks to be able to upload larger and larger videos to the extent that I think you uploaded a video that was more than four days long, uh, few, like a month or two ago, right? Like the, uh, the AWS bootcamp, uh, video course. Yeah, that was massive. And maybe you can talk a little bit about how you figure out ways to do this. Cause even YouTube, their engineers are kind of often asking, Hey, how did you do that? You know, we've had. Beau (3031.742) Yeah. Quincy (3031.786) Lots of calls with like the VP of XYZ over at YouTube who's trying to understand like how we're using it and how we're using it in such a different way from how most people are using YouTube as a distribution network. Beau (3046.57) Yeah, our channel definitely does things on YouTube that other channels aren't doing. And yeah, like you said, people from YouTube have kind of talked to, said that we're kind of an edge case for what we're doing. And especially when our channel first started, even less people were coming to these long courses. I think now that we've got the free CoCamp channel has shown how much people actually like that. There's more and more channels posting long courses. And Yeah, it does get tricky. I mean, for one, YouTube's official documentation says that the longest course possible is 12 hours. And that's just not true. They just I don't know why it's still out there. But their help page, that's what it says. So sometimes you just have to try things to see if it works, even if the documentation says it's not going to work. And but one thing that is true is the file size limit. So I think I think it's 250 gigabytes and so That so that's one of the biggest things that we have to work around because like this fourday course as you can imagine it's hard to fit that into a 250 gigabyte file so that really the biggest secret is the dot web in format I don't know this for sure, but I think that YouTube that's like the.webm format I think is the main format YouTube uses internally. And it seems like the.webm format can compress things a lot more, and still have pretty good quality. So especially when I'm creating any course that's like over 24 hours long, it, it takes me a long time to finally get that course up. Because I'll have to sometimes I'll have to export multiple, sometimes I'll have to export multiple files. from my video editing software, because it cannot, my video editing software cannot export over 24 hours at a time. So, and then I'll have to use another like FFmpeg or something to combine those exports. And then I'll have to use, I usually use Handbrake to convert it to the.webm format. And then after all that's done, I have, I mean, it takes up so much space. I mean, sometimes it can be up to like, Beau (3309.918) sometimes I can get up to like a terabyte, you know, have all these files, and then, and then I'll finally get to upload the file to YouTube. And sometimes like one, when we first published the CS 50 course, which was like a pretty, it was a pretty long course was also. Yeah, and, oh, yeah. Yeah. So that was the biggest thing about the CS 50 courses. Quincy (3326.636) It's like 2425 hours long for the new one, the newest one. And it's in 4K. Beau (3336.814) It was 4K, so not only was it a super long course, it was also 4K. And this newest one didn't take as long, but the first one we published that was also similar length. We published, I think, maybe two years ago. It took... it took actually, I think, four to five weeks to process on YouTube. After I uploaded it, it had to finish processing, and it took over four weeks to process. And then I had given up on it, I just... I didn't think it was ever going to finish processing, but I just left it there just in case. And eventually it showed up, showed that it was done processing and then we could publish it. Quincy (3412.164) Wow, that's gotta be a record. Like I can't imagine that YouTube, I mean, they're engineers hats off to them. If they actually have, they don't have something that kills a process have for four weeks. Cause that, that is like some crazy processing time for a single video. Beau (3423.203) Mmhmm. Beau (3428.278) They must have improved it though because since then, the processing time isn't never that long. It still can be kind of a long time, like for that four day course. I think that took maybe like a day to process, which is still a long time but nowhere near like the four weeks. Quincy (3445.496) Yeah. So maybe you can talk a little bit about how you approach developing courses, because, as I said, you've developed a lot of courses. We have a lot of organizations we work with, you know, Microsoft, Google, and then, of course, lots of tech companies like MongoDB, New Relic, and they'll create grants for Freeco Camp. And the grant will be like, create a course around open telemetry, for example, and show how it works or something like that. And then. Essentially, your role is to take a look at the various tools and figure out, okay, what's like a full stack project we can build around this that will be compelling, that'll be interesting. And we can show people how to use these tools in addition to a whole bunch of other open source tools. So maybe you could talk about what your workflow is likely. Let's say for example, um, the spoiler alert, we're going to be developing a course on this multiplayer. uh, server like net code essentially, and that's going to be pretty exciting. Uh, but like what will be your process for developing a game that makes use of net code and things like that. And I guess from ideation to actual, you know, outline development, uh, the more detail you can go into the better. Cause I think a lot of people are probably very interested in how the video courses get made because they don't just drop out of the sky in final form. They are. There's a long iterative process involved. Beau (3617.271) Mmhmm. Beau (3647.658) Yeah, yes, Beau (3655.974) If there's any other videos out there, I'll watch videos that kind of explain it and then just get as much knowledge of that technology as possible and then sometimes there'll be an opportunity to actually ask questions to the team that creates that technology and so it kind of really solidify my understanding and then after that I try to Think of what an interesting project is gonna be because we want to teach the topic, but in an engaging way. So I want to kind of think what's going to be an interesting project that people are going to be maybe interested to create, even if they don't know about that technology or they're not maybe, so you want to be able to have people coming to the video for two reasons. One, people that want to learn that technology, and two, maybe they just are interested in that project. So you get more interest in that. And then after I kind of... develop the idea, maybe brainstorm different things, then I will, I guess maybe depending on the course, I may have to develop some code, some like the code for the project that I'm going to teach. And then sometimes, then I'll generally have to write a script. And the script will, they'll usually some sort of introduction. And the key part is having a good hook, you know, you want within the first 30 seconds or a minute. you want people to be interested in watching the rest of the course where sometimes I'll actually do that I'll have an idea for what I'm gonna do for the hook and the introduction but I'll do that at the end after I've maybe demonstrated how to create a project then I'll then I'll write the introduction and put a lot of time into how I'm gonna hook people so they're actually interested in watching the whole thing and the way I do courses everyone kind of makes them different but generally, the most of the course, I won't be on camera, I'll be demonstrating something through screen sharing, and I'll be just recording my voice. And then I'll generally have just certain sections where I'm on camera. So I'll use like the introduction, the conclusion, and then maybe a few transition points. So I'll write all that and like what I'm going to do for that, then I record it all. And then I just basically kind of combine it all together. Beau (3919.062) Um, uh, edit out all my mistakes. Like anytime, anytime I'm sharing my screen and, uh, on a course, you can know that there's way more edits than it looks like because, uh, I make so many mistakes and I'm creating it, but then I have to edit it. So it makes it looks like I'm new. What I was talking about on the first take. So, uh, it kind of can take a while to put it all together. Um, I mean, also there's a few things I always think about. which is one, having good audio. And I mean, that's a super important thing for courses, is having good audio. And then one thing that's kind of surprising to people is that on the FreeCodeCamp channel, one third of our viewers are watching on mobile devices and even more than one third are sometimes watching on very small screens. Cause we have viewers all over the world and we have, and so it's important for any of our courses, especially ones I'm making is that the Any text or code on screen is big enough for people to be able to read if they're watching on a small device, because we want to make this accessible as possible to people all over the world. So those are all kind of my, I guess, some of the broad overview of what I think about when I'm creating a course. Quincy (4033.136) Yeah. And you've created an entire guide. I just call it our YouTube style guide, essentially, uh, how to create a good technical course. Um, and, uh, I'm going to include that in the, um, the show notes, but what are some of the big mistakes that you've seen people make? that you think are like the easiest things to correct. The easy wins where people can up their course creation game if they just remember a few key concepts. I mean, you definitely mentioned. Text size, you definitely mentioned the importance of quality sound. People will tolerate like okayish video, but if the audio is bad, then that is a lot of people will just click off. YouTube is very, uh, cutthroat, brutal place, uh, environment for your video to live because all along the side you've got exciting, you know, potentially like much more. uh, sensational than like learning how to use MongoDB or something like that. You've got content like that, uh, that can easily pull you in your attention away and then also, you know, like. Reddit and Facebook and all the other websites are just an alt tab away. So people can go and do something completely different. And, you know, people are, you know, potentially watching and a, on a bus or like, there's so many different. Beau (4130.028) Mmhmm. Quincy (4153.124) kind of things that can jostle people out of watching your indepth course. Uh, but I guess tips you have for engaging people and, uh, things that you've, you've seen people do that you really learned a lot from and things that you see people do often that you think are antipatterns and are probably undermining their ability to find and retain, uh, viewership and learners. Beau (4220.222) Yeah, so I would say I think I've maybe here are the four biggest things. I mean, the two of them would be the ones you already said. So audio quality is really big, is really important. And a lot of people don't put enough thought into that because, you know, I'm seeing so many people are submitting courses to me for the free Kokem channel. So I see all these different levels. So audio quality and text size are the two very big things to think about. And then just the importance of the introduction, I talked about that a little earlier. But some people just go right into kind of teaching without giving anybody a reason for why they should watch. So it's very important within the first 30 seconds to a minute to explain very clearly what the course is about, what the people are going to learn, why the why people should watch should want to learn that, that content. and why people should learn that content from you. Because there's so many courses around so many different topics. So you went very quickly to explain why someone should watch that and why someone should watch it from you. And then at least on the FreeCocam channel, we have viewers from, like I said, all over the world. A lot of viewers don't speak English as their first language. And so it makes it even more important to basically have... speech that is very easy to understand. It could be like enunciation, pronunciation, audio quality. So like if you're a native English speaker, I think it's kind of easier to understand, maybe low lower quality audio. But if you if you are kind of an speaking English as a second language, you're just learning English, it becomes even more important for that to be very easy to understand. So that can really make a big difference as well. So I think those are those are the kind of the four high level things that I would think about. But there's like I said, you mentioned the articles, there's plenty of other tips in the article if people want to learn more. Quincy (4425.528) Yeah, okay, just to recap, high quality sound, large text, an introduction that establishes like, why? You know, the who, what, where, why, but essentially why people should stick around and invest the time in doing this course. And then forth, just consideration for non native English speakers. And on that note, you have been very active in mentoring. uh, Estefania who has launched the Spanish YouTube channel, which is also quite popular. It's one of the more popular Spanish language YouTube channels now. And, uh, you've also been working very hard on trying to figure out ways to improve the quality of subtitles. We've asked for lots of features from YouTube, for example, when we talk to YouTube, uh, deal. What do you think the near future for localization is? Maybe you can talk a little bit about like what Mr. Beast has been doing, for example, and some of the other ways that people have been trying to make their content more accessible to the nonEnglish speaking world. Beau (4537.802) Yeah, one of the relatively new features that YouTube rolled out was different language tracks. So we can put, we can upload, for instance, a Hindi language track or a Spanish language track. So it's our main video, but instead of so before you could already upload different subtitle tracks and you could change what language the subtitles are for. But now you can upload different language tracks in your videos. And so we have been experimenting with that. And at our scale, it's kind of prohibitive to actually have someone personally read, like dub the courses. So we've been looking into various ways to use AI tools and other things to create these dubbed voices. And I think eventually YouTube is just gonna offer that automatically. Like right now, You have to upload a different dub track, but my guess is in the near future YouTube will have live dubbing in other languages right on the channel. Quincy (4646.948) Yeah. And that will be amazing because, uh, whenever we, you know, the Spanish channel, everything is done by Spanish speaking creators. And that is like the very top level of experiences when you actually have a teacher who speaks your language, who understands, you know, not, not that like Spanish is a monoculture. It's a whole bunch of different countries, but, um, you know, can make like cultural references and explain things in a way that like an, an AI generated like translation of a script won't necessarily capture that nuance. So, um, yeah, like we're, we're going to continue to create, uh, video courses in other world languages, even after such technology exists. But it's, it's very exciting just because FreeCodeCamp has more than a thousand full length courses on I mean, most programming topics, like we have a course on cobalt, right? We have, and we have courses on all the newest stuff, like pretty, pretty much any new technology mojo course, for example. So you can imagine like, Wikipedia, about half the traffic to Wikipedia goes to the English edition. Beau (4743.98) Yeah. Quincy (4800.08) half the traffic goes to the other world languages. So it's like essentially doubling the amount of impact our charity can have in terms of our mission, which is helping people learn to code for free. So yeah, here's hoping that YouTube rose those features out and in the meantime, we'll continue experimenting with them. If we can economically do something to add dubbing or certainly if we can add new captions, you know, in different languages, we're gonna do that. Right now you... You can watch Freeco Camp in any world language you want, uh, with, with the, uh, auto translation, but YouTube's interface makes it like four or five clicks to be able to access that. And they, I was just helping somebody understand that the other day and it's still, you know, four or five clicks. I think it's, you have to click subtitles, then you have to click English and then you click the gear again, the setting again, and then you go, you know, trans auto translate, and then you choose your language. So it's like four or five clicks, uh, to be able to get Beau (4851.21) Mmhmm. Quincy (4858.012) captions, but you can do that. And I do that all the time because I watch a lot of videos that are not in English, um, like documentaries and things like that. And, uh, I'll, I'll go in and get the auto translated. English is kind of like a firstclass language in the sense that I think it's fewer clicks for an English speaker, just because it is kind of like a major world language. But, um, yeah, that's been an incredibly powerful feature and translation just gets better and better all the time. You know, I, I studied a lot of languages and I'm just Beau (4914.274) Mmhmm. Quincy (4927.356) blown away. I talked to, I'll take this and I'll show it to like my wife who's a Chinese, a native Chinese speaker. I'll talk to my native Spanish speaking friends and I'll be like, does this look like natural? And they'll be like, oh yeah, that's very natural. Where did you get that? It'll be like, GPT came up with it, you know? So, uh, yeah, it's, um, it's really impressive, uh, how powerful these tools are getting in freeco camp. I'll say it like on both of our behalf, we are applying the latest and greatest tools as quickly as we can work. Beau (4941.178) Uh huh. Quincy (4954.748) where they're ready for prime time. You know, there are lots of experimental tools that are frankly not ready for prime time and you won't see us generally use those. But mature tools that do work, we are gonna adopt them. So what are your, I guess your biggest, what are you most excited about with the main English Freeco Camp YouTube channel? Beau (4959.862) Mmhmm. Beau (5018.306) Well, yeah, I'm well first of all, I'm excited that we're getting a little closer to 10 million subscribers So that will be like a huge milestone that I think maybe in the next year or so we'll get to Because you know when I start I when I started working with free coke camp, we had 75,000 subscribers So that a lot some people think I just started the channel because they see me so much But I didn't start the channel that was Quincy, but I joined when there was 75,000 subscribers and now we're getting close to 10 million. So that's been pretty exciting. But I guess as far as other excitement, I'm just excited to basically continue what we've been doing to post more courses. And like what a lot of my time is around what you were just talking about, which is getting, making it more, making our courses more accessible to more people in the world through better subtitles, better dubbing and... just continuing to experiment with, I guess, different formats. And I just hope that we can continue to be kind of the premier place where people are watching software tutorials. And we also want to kind of continue to publish more and more very massive comprehensive courses, to the point where, where People don't need to even go to Udemy or some of these other places because they know they can just go to the FreeCocamp YouTube channel and they'll be able to find a high quality course and whatever they're trying to learn. Quincy (5152.664) Absolutely. Yeah. One of the things that I'm really excited about the YouTube channel is that we are publishing full length university courses created by free code camp. Yeah. So of course, Beau, you were able to go to Western Governors University. Excellent. Accredited university online. Very economical. There's some other what I call ultra low cost universities out there here in the United States. But our goal is to eventually have a free Beau (5201.068) Oh yeah. Quincy (5220.144) computer science degree program like bachelor in computer science and associate in mathematics and We're going to be publishing the lectures from those on YouTube. In fact, we already have the lectures from one of the first mathematics courses up there, and we're going to get the lectures from the second one up, hopefully, within the next month or two. And then we have a total of 40 full length university courses that we're going to publish on FreecoCamp's YouTube channel. So that's something I'm really pumped about that. I'll just add on top of what you were saying. Beau (5252.266) Yeah, and I'm excited about that too. There's so many things to be excited about, so. Quincy (5256.976) Well, I want to talk a little bit more about you personally, because you're an interesting dude, objectively. I guess, subjectively, because I can't speak objectively. From where I'm standing, you're very interesting. One of the things that strikes me is the parallels between you and Richard Feynman, of course, the famous, I think it was like Caltech. Beau (5307.891) Hehehehe. Quincy (5319.804) mathematics and physics professor, one of the greatest teachers to ever live that we know about, you know, there could be incredible teachers in, you know, human prehistory and antiquity that are lost to time, but he was definitely like one of the greatest teachers of the 20th century. And he was a very, I don't mean to say this in like a pejorative way, but he was kind of an eccentric dude. Like he loved going really deep and learning like magic tricks and, you know, You are somebody who literally owns like stiltwalking.com or something. Was it, what's the website that you have? stiltwalker.net where you can hire VoCarns. You can hire VoCarns to be a stiltwalker at your carnival or your, your state fair, right? Beau (5356.234) Yes, yes, still Walker net. I haven't done anything with it for a while though. Beau (5408.882) Yeah, yeah, so I used to do it a lot more. I haven't been doing it as much lately if I still sometimes do it where I walk on stilts. I juggle clubs So I'll be on the stilts juggling clubs and I'll go to different events and I've done a lot of parades I've done a lot of different like fairs and festivities So I don't do it quite as much as I used to but i'm still getting out there sometimes and I i'm trying to pass off some of it to my kids. Um because another thing I used to do a lot was magic shows. And so my oldest son has been, this year will be his fourth year in a row doing a magic show at his school talent show. So I've been kind of passing off some of my knowledge to him and helping him prepare to perform, to do these magic performances. So yeah, there was a while where I was actually... booking a lot like tons of paid gigs and now I mainly just do it kind of for fun at different events but I there was a period of my life where I was booking paid gigs like for still walking and magic shows like all over the state of Michigan so Quincy (5521.544) That is really cool. Yeah. Definitely. If we ever have like a really like free cocamps, a small charity, we don't have a lot of resources. We don't have like big inperson conferences or anything. It's not like dream force that takes over half of San Francisco that Salesforce has every year. We would never have the budget for something like that. But if we do ever have like an event, like a, you know, an Apple keynote type thing, we absolutely have got to get you on stilts at that event. That would be so cool. Yeah. Well, though I just, I Beau (5545.358) Okay, I'm in, I'm in. Quincy (5551.178) for the freeCodeCamp community. I'm proud, of course, to have you on the freeCodeCamp team working alongside me and Estefania and all these other teachers slash software engineers, many of whom have classroom teaching experience, like you have five plus years of special ed teaching and robotics club and things like that. And yeah, we're just like. thrilled to have you here. It's a huge point of pride that we can say like, yeah, we have people like Beau Carnes working at freeCodeCamp. So yeah, I just want to publicly acknowledge that like, I'm, you know, over the moon and everything you're doing. And I want to thank you again. Beau (5631.554) Well, I really appreciate it. Yeah, I respect you so much. So just hearing all that coming from you is really meaningful. Thank you. Quincy (5638.168) Yeah. And I just want to encourage everybody to check out some of Beau's writing, which I've included in the show notes. Again, uh, his story of how he got his second degree, his computer science, uh, software development degree from Western governors university while he was raising two kids while he was working as a teacher and, uh, check out Beau's personal website, which has some, some cool quirky stuff on it. And of course, If you are a creator and you want to create courses, or if you're just a teacher, you're teaching a community college, a university, wherever, uh, high school level, and you just want to help share your passion and your wisdom that you've developed around math, programming, technology. reach out to Beau and read his style guide. It will teach you everything he's learned over the course of many years, being on YouTube and creating tutorials. And yeah, I hope everybody has a fantastic day. Signing off, everybody. Till next week, happy coding. Beau (5742.25) Bye everybody.