Hi, I'm Beau Carnes with Free Code Camp. In this course, I will teach you how to create a full ecommerce store with WooCommerce and WordPress. These are free tools that you can use to create a wide variety of E commerce websites, and I will teach you everything you need to know step by step. This course is perfect for beginners, there is no coding whatsoever, and you'll be able to do everything with a simple graphical interface. The WooCommerce plugin makes it simple to turn a WordPress website into a complete ecommerce business. In this course, you will learn how to customize your store, create products, accept payments with credit cards and PayPal, set taxes and shipping rates, create coupon codes, and more. First, I'm going to show you how to do the initial setup. This includes getting a domain name hosting, and installing WordPress and WooCommerce. Next, I'll show you how to install an e commerce Store template and easily customize the look of it so it fits with your specific brand. After the store looks exactly how you like, I'll show you how to add four different types of store products. Finally, I'll show you how to set up the payment processing automatic tax calculations, shipping rates and coupon codes so customers can check out on your website. Along the way, you will also learn other tips such as customizing the email sent to customers, adding related products, creating store categories, and more. This course is all you need to set up a store. But if you want to learn more about customizing the look of your WordPress website, you can check out my previous WordPress course. So let's get started. First, I'm going to show you how to get your domain and your hosting. This is the part that you will have to pay some money, but it is pretty cheap. The name usually cost between 10 and $20 per year, and hosting often cost around $5 per month, we're going to use hosting her. There's a lot of websites that provide website hosting, hosting, or is provided a grant that has made this course possible. And that's why we're going to show you how to set things up with hosting. Now even before I made this course, or we got this grant with Free Code Camp, I actually use hosting or for some of my personal sites, and I had a really good experience with them. Some things about hosting or is if you get the right type of subscription, you can get a free domain lifetime SSL and DDoS protection. But just so you know, everything I teach in this course will work with other hosting providers as well. So you don't have to go with hosting. So let's just click Start down, start now. And there's a few different options here. If you're just starting out, I would recommend just the cheapest option, you can always upgrade later if you need to. But see, this includes one website, and then the next one up includes 100 websites, but we're just making one website. So just select that one. And then you choose just how long you want to sign up for, you're probably going to want at least 12 months, but you may want the 24 months or the 40 months to get a different deal. And then you can just enter all your information. Now I'm not going to go through all this right now, because I already have an account, I just want to show you what you have to do. So I want me to sign into my account, and then I can show you what's gonna what's gonna look like after you get signed in. Okay, once you get signed in, you can get your domain, you may have already gotten your domain in the process of signing up for your hosting provider. But if not, you may have to get your domain afterwards. And just so you know, it is possible to buy a domain from one company and get your hosting from a different company and connect them. But for this tutorial, we're just showing how you would get your domain name from the same company as the hosting. So I'll just click Claim domain. And the here is where you you may have to search through quite a few domains to find one that's not already taken. Let me just try some about robot clothing, no robot attire. Okay, we got one that WORKED robot attire because this is going to be a clothing store. Okay, I'm going to claim the domain. Let's get this set up. And this is just on my own personal and I'll just finish registration. Okay, now I can start creating the website. And it's pending verification. So I just need to go and click the link in my email. And make sure you turn on this who has privacy or anybody can look up your your information. And you could be getting a lot of email spam emails, even like letters to your address. Let me show you how to create a custom email from your domain. So I'm under hosting or domain overview. If I scroll down here, I can go to manage email. Here I am going to create a new email account. So I'm going to add email account and it's just going to be info at robot attire.com. And then I'll create a password And then create. If I click on webmail, it will open up to where I can log in. And here, once I get logged in, I can send and receive email from info at robot tire.com. Okay, let me go back to the home here. And I'm going to set up the premium shared hosting. This is where we'll install WordPress you can go to the survey. And here is where you can choose to just install WordPress, or in chaw install WordPress plus WooCommerce. And that's what we want to do, we want to install WooCommerce and WordPress, because WooCommerce is going to power the store that runs on WordPress. And then just create an account here. And you can just pick a template right here, I'm actually going to install the template later, just so you can see how you would do if you don't have hosting. Or if you're not using hosting, or if you're using a different hosting provider, you may not get a chance to pick a template right here, and you may have to do it later. So that's what we're gonna do. And we'll just connect it right to robot attire.com. Okay, I'll finish the setup. And again, you can install WordPress, even if you don't have hosting, or most of the popular hosting providers have a way to install WordPress, it just can be slightly different. Depending on what hosting provider you get. After the website is set up, you may go right into the place where you're managing it. But if not, you can always go back to the homepage here and hosting or and then click Manage. Now in this page is going to give you all the information about your page like the IP address. And it's like the domain name, and the name servers. And also, if you're using a hosting provider that's not hosting her, there's probably a page that looks kind of like this, which is where you actually install WordPress. So you will probably get into some sort of managing site just like this. And there will likely be a button somewhere down here that says Install WordPress or says WordPress or something like that. So if you can't, if you don't install WordPress, when you're originally setting up your page, there may be some other way to do it. But once you have installed WordPress, then it's pretty straightforward. I'm going to click on Dashboard right here. And then once I'm get to dashboard, I'm just going to click Edit website. We purchased the domain name and hosting and installed WordPress and WooCommerce. Now let's customize the store. Now let me minimize the page a little bit. So you can actually see the URL bar here. Now, whenever you create any sort of WordPress website, to get to the admin page, where you actually make all the edits on your WordPress site, it's always the same, it's going to be the URL that you previously chose. And it's going to be slash WP dash admin. And then when you get to that, you'll log in. Now I'm already logged in. But if you're not logged in, you'll be logged into the admin page. And then you can start making changes on your WordPress account. As soon as we get into here, there'll be some special notifications, it talks about setting up the website analytics, and it says Welcome to WordPress, well, we can just dismiss that some of these you can just dismiss now this one, your store does not appear to be using a secure connection. This is important, especially when you're going to create a store, you want it to be over a secure connection. It says we highly recommend serving your entire website over an HTTPS connection. Now let me show you how to do that. So I'm gonna go back to the hosting or admin page, and look where it says force HTTPS, redirect all websites over HTTPS. So I'm going to turn that on. And then it's going to allow us to install the SSL certificate. Now pretty much all hosting providers are going to give you this option somewhere. But it could be in a different place. So I'm going to say install SSL. Now it says HTTPS will be automatically forced on your domain. So instead of HTTP colon slash slash, it's at https colon slash slash robot attire.com. S means secure. So we'll close that. And now I'll just go back over here. If I just refresh this it's gonna let me log in again, because now we're in the secure version of the website. Now you can see this lock is six one, the secure version of the website. And if we click this, you'll see connection is secure. So we're in HTTPS, which is good, and we don't see that warning anymore over here. Okay, before we start setting things up, let's see what the website actually Looks like with all the default settings here. So I'm just going to click where it says, I'm going to mouse over where it says robot attire.com and click Visit Site. Okay, so this is the default site, I'm going to go back to the admin page. And then this time, I'm gonna try going to visit store. Okay, so this is the default store. Now, obviously, the site, the store don't look anything like what we want to look like, we're going to be doing a lot of updating. So I'm going to show you how to edit this site. So it looks exactly how we want to look. And now you can see this top bar here. That's because we're logged into WordPress. And it just anybody that goes to a website isn't going to see this top bar. But since we're logged into WordPress, we see that top bar because we're the administrator, so we can do special things like at Site customize, I'm going to show you what all these things are later. But if we go back into the URL, we can see this is the shop URL, but we can go back to the main URL just by changing the URL in here. So I'm going to show you how to update all this to be exactly what we want to look exactly how we want to look. But first, let's go back into the dashboard. Before we saw what the website already looks like, and it didn't look that nice. So we are going to install a theme and a template to just get a basic look for our site. And then we can customize it. Now a lot of these things that I'm going to show you the order doesn't really matter like we could set up, we could do the WooCommerce setup now. But we're going to do that in a little bit. We are going to right now go to appearance. And let me just zoom in a little more, so it's easier to see everything. Anytime you're using WordPress, you're going to use some sort of theme. Now, it has this 2022 As a default theme here. But there's tons of different themes that you can use. I'm just gonna close that for now. And then I'm going to go to add new theme. So there's a bunch of really good thing like Astra I think this is one of the most popular themes out there. With Ocean WP, I showed how to use this in my previous WordPress tutorial. For this one, we're going to use one called Block C. Now, a lot of the themes work well with E commerce sites. But this one in particular, I found has a lot of good features for E commerce sites, I'm just going to go and install that theme. And then after it's installed, just click Activate. And then I'm going to install the block C companion. It says right here that it includes custom extensions, demo templates, and many, many other awesome features. And we're going to be using one of the the demo templates. So let's install the block C companion. Okay. Now if you want to, if you want to give them all this extra information, you can but I'm just going to skip there. But if you want to allow and continue you can. And now I'm going to go to starter sites. So what's cool is that has all these starter sites that you can install for free. So we can install one of these starter sites. And then we can go through and edit it as much as we want. So we can use one of these sites as our base site. And then we can then customize it to meet us our to meet our exact needs. So you're going to want to go through all these and try to figure out which one looks most similar to what you want your website to be. Well, I'm going to just choose this garter robe, I kind of like that already focuses on clothing. And my site is going to focus on clothing. But you can use any of these. And you can make, like, for example, see, this one's called Petzi, you can use Petzi, even if you're not going to be having a website focused on Petzi or focus on pets. Because once we get this installed, we can do a bunch of edits and make it custom for our specific use case. So I'm going to import this one. And then we'll install the child theme also. And then we can choose which page builder we want to use. There's the Gutenberg page builder and Elementor page builder. Now Gutenberg is the default page builder that comes with WordPress in Elementor. Is is an is an extra page where like an add on a special page builder. And most people agree that Elementor is a little easier to use. So if you're a beginner, I would recommend using Elementor. And I'm going to show you how to use it later in this course. So just click next here, and it's going to install Elementor WooCommerce is already installed. And then it's going to install WP forms. So let's click Next. We'll just import all the content and install everything. Ok, Starter Site imported successfully. So let's view the site. Okay, so remember what our site looked like before. Well now this is what it looks like. So the Starter Site included some images, and then it has all these things. It even has some sample products right in here. And I'm going to show you in a little bit how to update all these how to Change all these things to your products in your images. But it's nice just to have something to start with, that we can customize for our purposes. And you can see all the text is just lorem ipsum. So it's a sample text that will will update with our own products. So one thing, let's go up here, and I'm just going to click on a product. So you can see what it looks like. If we click on here, we can see the product page. And you can see this on sale, not only $30. Now it's $45. And it even has a review. So users are going to be able to enter their own reviews for your for your store when they buy products, and it shows the top rated products. And then we can even see what happens if we add this to cart. So let's just add this to the cart, view the cart. And then we even have a checkout cart here. And you can have coupon codes, then we can proceed to checkout, and even taken the billing details. And it says right here, sorry, it seems that there are no available payment methods for your state, we're going to have to set up the payment methods, which I'll show you how to do. And I can't even show you what it's like to place order until we get the payment methods. Right now we have invalid payment methods. Because we don't even we haven't even set up any payment methods. But let's see what else we have. We have the products. And you can see on the main product page, we actually have a filter, you can filter by price. And we can see the different products, we have services, which will be custom will be specific to your store. And you may not even need this page. Depending on what store you're trying to create. You may want to show what special services your store offers. And then there's the about us page, there's a news page. This is basically a blog. And so we can see all these sample blog entries here and then a contact page. And you can see how it's always giving products trying to sell things on every page. And then we can even search for things. So I'm going to search for a hat. Okay, they came up with nothing. Let's try a watch, I saw that there's definitely a watching the sample products here. And even comes up right here. Okay, so people can search for the products they want. So this is a pretty nice store here. So now let's see how to customize it. So it's specific to your store your product and what you want it to look like. So let's go back to the dashboard. Soon I'm going to show you how to customize your store and add custom products. But first, let's finish this WooCommerce setup. So I'm going to click start selling. And it's going to guide us through some setup things. First, we're going to going to put our address, if you look right here, it says this is going to help configure currency options and shipping rules automatically. And this will not be publicly visible and can be easily changed later. So you don't have to enter, enter this, you can set up the shipping rules and currency manually. But I'm just going to enter some information here. And then you can choose what are you going to sell physical products, downloadable products or subscriptions? I'm just gonna do physical products and downloads and then continue and then you choose like how many products you're going to have and then they they try kind of upsell you it's not it's It's actually free plugins, but they try to suggest what are the things you want to add for now we're not going to add any of those. And we can always add things later. And then it's going to ask you if you want to to this theme, but we already did that. So let's continue with the active theme. In we're gonna come back to all this in a little bit the setting up payments, taxes shipping, we're after we customize our store, we're gonna come back and set up all these things. Now let's go back to the on the side, we have the WooCommerce and we're gonna go to settings, and you're probably going to want to update some of the settings in here. So selling locations, where do you want to sell to? This may change depending on what do you want to ship to like you can actually type in different specific countries sell to specific countries. And then you can just type in type in the countries here like let's see, I'm going to sell to the United States of Canada and ZICO. That way don't have to ship across an ocean. Or you can just choose all countries or whatever countries you want to sell to. And then shipping locations. So sell the specific coming countries, that means we're selling to people that are there live in specific countries, but you may not want to ship to the same locations that you're selling to, it's usually going to be the same. That's why the default is shipped to all countries you sell to, and the default customer location. Where do you think most people are going to be? Now you could do geo locate, if you click geo locate, the browser will try to figure out where the user is located. And then we'll set the default location to wherever the browser says they're currently located. So I'm actually just going to do shop Country region, so it will default to the United States where I'm from. And then I am going to enable tax rate calculations that we'll set up more later able to use a coupon code, you can decide whether you want to do that. And then you can choose the currency options. So I'll just save changes for this. Now go to the Products page. Some of the things you're gonna want to choose here are the weight units. Well, since I'm in the United States, I'll choose pounds, but probably most people are going to choose kilograms. If you're somewhere else in the world dimension units, I'll just choose inches. And you can choose if you want enable reviews, if you want to enable star rating, other save what we have here, and then you're probably going to want to go to inventory here too. And so in inventory, you can determine whether you're going to enable stock management. So I can just turn that off. And we won't ever tell how much you have in stock. Or you can set all these things based on when something is low stock when something is out of stock, you can also change things for the downloadable products. And for the down little products, you can determine whether you have to download, you can do downloads Require Login, are you going to grant access to downloadable products after payment, you're likely going to want to say keep all this as the default settings. But you can change it if you want. Now tax we're going to talk more about tax later. But you can see there's settings for tax shipping, we're gonna set payments for the store later. And then accounts and privacy. Do you want to allow customers to place order without an account, probably you want to give customers as much freedom and flexibility as possible. So they'll be more likely to go through and buy products allow I'm going to allow customers to create an account while customers create an account on the My Account page we want them to be just do as much as they possibly can. Yeah, we want them to be able to log into an existing countering checkout if they have an account. And then here, it's going to link to the privacy policy, which we are going to be able to create later. And then let's go to emails, oops, I've got 10. Remember to save this. So here are where you can see the emails that are sent out when someone makes an order, and you can update what emails are sent out based on different things happening in your store. And the rest of this we won't do anything with. So let's go back to our dashboard. Now I'm going to teach you how to customize your site. So it's specific to your brand. So I'm going to go back into Visit Site. And I'm going to show you how to customize every part of this site. And then afterwards, I'll show you how to add your custom items. While we're customizing the site, we're just going to use all the sample items and sample data that's already there. But then afterwards, we'll delete all the sample data. So we can start adding your real products. So if you remember, we installed the Elementor page builder, that's what I'm going to show you how to use now. So in this top bar when I click edit with Elementor. And if you get this depending on how you set your site, you may have to recreate the kit. So we'll do that now. We're going to recreate the kit and then save changes. You may not even have to do that step. But now let me go back to the site. And then edit with Elementor. There's always new versions of Elementor. So you may get something telling you about some new version of Elementor. But you can just click through that got it. So now we can see the site. And then over on the left side are all the different elements we can edit with. But look what we can do. But we can actually click any of these elements and start editing. So it says brand new collection will I can actually just select this. And then I'm going to type in robots, robot clothes are fun. And you can put anything you want here your store slogan, or this is just for fun. I'm just kind of giving you example here, but you can change what this looks like, I can go to style. So I can actually change the color if I want to change it to a specific color. Or even better if you don't want to, instead of just picking any color, it's better if your site has specific colors, you don't want to use tons of colors everywhere, you want to stick to just a few colors on your whole site. So that's easy to do by I can click one of these global colors. I'm going to do theme color for but later I'll show you how to change those theme colors. So when you change the theme colors, and all the places like for instance, one of the theme colors is red. And if I change the theme color to a different color, all the red will change to a different color. But for now, I'm going to continue doing some edits on here. So here is where you can change the font size, weight and all this stuff, you can change the style, like if it's bold, or italicized, I'm actually going to change this to normal. And then I'm going to make this a little smaller, because I want this to just be on two lines. And you can even change like the line height how much space is between the lines, letter spacing. And there's just a lot of different settings you can you can change to make it so it works for your specific brand. You can even add a text shadow. So that's what I'm going to try adding a shadow here. And we can kind of change where the shadow is going to be. And you don't have to edit shadows just some interesting things that make it stand out and make it specific to your your store. So I'm gonna go to Advanced here. And this is where you can change different margin. So margin is going to be so margin and padding are both going to have to do with how much space are around the words. So I'm going to change the the margin on the side. And you can see it's all going together because it's locked. But if we unlink the values, then we can just change one or you don't have to change them all at the same time. So I can put this back to zero, this can be zero, and then we can just change the left margin to go to the side. And it's gonna work the same with padding. So if I unlink, this, I can change the padding on the left side. And then there's all these other things, you can do that to the text like any of this stuff here, you can do to any text on the whole page. So you can make an interest animation so it fades in. So as soon as you scroll down to see these words, the text can fade in. And there's all these different options we can make it bounce in, we can make it slide to the left. And you're probably not going to want to do that for your main title. But this is just an example. Because you can go through in every text like this new arrivals, you can make it slide in as soon as the person scrolls down. So you can just experiment with all these different settings, you can like for instance, you can change the background. So we can put an image in the background, or we can do a specific color, so I can make it a red background. I'll clear that though. Or you can actually put an image in the background like for instance, over here we have a background image. And I'll show you how to change that for a little bit. So there's these all these different things to easily customize it to be exactly how you want it. So here we can see these three different things with three different icons. Well, instead of a checkmark, I want to change this icon, I'm gonna go to the icon library. And I can change this I can, let's see, where's the search here. Obviously, I'm going to choose a robot for the icon because this is all about robot clothes. And I can change this, I can do the same thing for all these icons. Now I'm going to show you some settings that change stuff on your whole site. So if I click the this hamburger menu, I can go to Site Settings. So here you can change things that are going to impact things all over your site. Now depending on what your theme is, it may not change things, because you may have a theme that overrides some of these settings. But some things are pretty important, like the site identity, let's go to site identity, I'm going to change this site name will show up in the top bar of your website. So insert my URL here, I'm gonna be called robot tire. And then a site description. This is something that could show up on some search engines, and then some other places. So instead of putting just another WordPress site, I'm gonna say best place best store for robot attire. And then logo. This is where we can change our logo. So to switch the logo on the site, we're just going to click here the Choose Image. First, you have to have your logo made, I would recommend a site like fiverr.com where you can hire someone to make a a logo for you for $5. I've actually used that for some other sites that I've created, but also sometimes I just create my own logos. In this case I I've already created a logo. So I'm gonna just go to choose image. And I'm going to upload it. And I'm going to select it and it's uploading. And I will, I'll just put a logo. And then here's where you can also add a favicon. That's the icon that will appear on the tab on your browser. So you can choose an icon, there's plenty of websites that you can go to that you can upload a picture, and it will, it will give you a favicon file that you can upload right into here. So what I'm going to do is update the site settings. And hopefully we'll see it right on here. Now we can see that the logo didn't change in WordPress, because of how the page builder works together with the theme works together with just the standard WordPress design, there could be multiple places to change different things. And depending on what theme you're using, the only way to find out for sure how to change things is through trial and error. So we can see that changing the site logo here did not change the logo, there's one other place we can change. And when we go to this other place, there's actually quite a few other things we can change there. So let me show you how to get to there. So what we're gonna do is just close this. And then I'm going to click the little hamburger menu and then click Exit to dashboard. And then we just need to go to this the WordPress logo here. And now we go to appearance. And under Appearance I'm going to go to Customize, this is going to enable a whole new section of things that we can customize. So I'm going to go to the header because we're changing the header here. And then you can see it's showing different things we have here. So eight, when it says the top row, that's this row appear, this is the top row where it says Don't miss our holiday offer 20% off, and then it has the the social media things. And then we have the main row here, which so it says logo, and then it has the menu, it has the search account card, that's the search account card over here. So I'm just going to click where it says menu. Now you can see the logo here, this is the old logo, I'm going to click this edit button. And then I can just choose the new logo. Okay, now we see the new logo right up here. And there's different settings you can do, we can change the height of the logo, so too big. And you can change how it's aligned. Now, while we're on this page, let me show you what some of the other things you can do. Okay, so let's now change this top bar here. So one thing I want to do is change the social media. So if I click social media here, here's where we can add what social media we want to add, like, we may not want to, we may not want to have a phone number, we probably want to have an email. So I'm just going to have, I'm just going to have Twitter and Facebook. And then as you can see, they go away here. Now we only have the two links here. And then it says, configure the social links in general layout social network accounts. So let me show you how to do that. We're going to go back here, General, and then social network accounts. And there's all these, you can just add what your social network account is here. So for email, I'll just put my email address, and then we can go back to the other one, which is the Twitter. And you can add, and I'll just put HTTP s, colon, slash slash twitter.com/beau Carnes, but you may have a social media account directly for your your store. And then here's some other things we can do. I am going to go back here. And this is a pretty important thing here. If I go to Where's oh, I need to go back again. And then we go to colors. This is where you can change the colors throughout your whole store. Now I decided to go ahead and use the red. That's why I made the logo red there. But if you don't want to see all these buttons that are red, if I go into this color palette, or actually not there, if I just actually click this color color one, I can change this to blue, and see every place on the site that was red is now blue. See, and then you can change see that red there? Well, let's go to Color to I think that could be the hover color. Let's find if I change the green. Let's see what now if I hover now it's going to hover as green and see where this gray here that kind of looks like this. Let's see if I change this. What happens if I change this to red? Oh no, but it did change this text down here. We'll keep that and see even this becomes blue here but since I have the red as the logo, I'm going to change the main color back to red. But you can change the colors for your website to match whatever you have as your logo. And then you can see you can change the color of different things here, the different headings, what color the links are going to be. But I'm gonna go back over here. So here, you can change the header and the footer, and stuff like that. But to really change the header, you can just click here and change the header, because if I click on menu here, it's not going to change the menu items. So if I want to change the menu items in the header, there's somewhere else I have to do, I have to go to do that. So let me click publish. So we published with our new color and the logo here. And then I'm going to hit X to go out of this, when we go back over here. Now if I go to Appearance, Menus, this is where we can choose what things show up in the menu, we're not going to show services. So I'm going to remove services, I'm going to remove news. And we're just going to have the products, the Home Products about us and contact. So the real thing that a lot of you care about is the shop page. So let's just quickly show you how to edit the about us page and the contact page. And then we will go to the shop page. So I'm going to go back to visiting the site. And now if we go to about us. Now here on the About Us page, you can just edit it just like we had the other page, I'm going to edit with Elementor. And I'm just going to delete this entire section here, I'm just going to the x bar here. And you can see there, this top section is really big. Now that I deleted that little section this, this about us thing, there's a lot of space down here. So I'm going to go here to this Edit section. Nowhere style. X will go to advanced. And you can see the padding, the padding is why there's so much blank space here, I'm just going to change this to zero. So 00. And then we have teams, you can change that these pictures, you can change this text to your team names, you can update and remove things just like we did on the other page. Okay, let's go to the contact page. Oh, and before I forget that, when you make changes, it doesn't actually make the changes until you click update. So I'm gonna click the Update down here. And then we'll go to the contact page. So here's our contact form. Now you can edit with Elementor, just like we've seen, but let me show you how you would actually edit what fields are in this form. I'm going to go up to WP forms right here. And I'm going to a simple contact form, edit form. Now I can add things to remove things like phone, we don't need to know the person's phone number. Okay, we do need to know that email address. And I can get something new like I mean, when I use some checkboxes, I'm going to click this checkbox and drag it over here. And then I can edit it. So reason for contact website, question. Sales want a cookie. Now I can save that. But before I go back to my contact page, I'm going to settings and notifications. And make sure this is on. Sometimes we'll be off you want to make sure these notifications are on. And this is going to send to your admin email address. So I'm going to save this will access now I'll go back to my contact page. And we'll try it out and I do want a cookie. Hello. Now click Send Message. Now go to my email address. This is info at robot attire.com which is my current admin email. Go in here. And here. I want a cookie. Hello, I got the email. Well, that works. Let's check out this header. There's still some menu items that I thought were removed. So let me go back over to the dashboard. Appearance Menus. And I did not save the menu last time that was the problem. So let me Move this, move that. And then we'll save the menu. And this time, it will hopefully work. Okay, that looks good. Okay, we finally reached the part you've been waiting for the product page. So let me show you how you can change the product page. Now you can see there is no edit with Elementor up here. So we can only click Customize. Now I'm going to scroll down here to where it says WooCommerce. The product page is through WooCommerce. So here we can change things like the other three columns here, well, what I can add additional columns of products, I can do two columns. And then we can change how many rows right now there are four rows, we may want to only have three rows. You can also change the fiscal, what type of the shop is going to look like. There's some just some minor differences between each of these styles. And we can change how it's going to sort what kind of sidebar we're going to have. So right now we have the filter, we can, we can filter. So we can just show the products. Or we can turn back on the sidebar, we can filter by different but in different ways. So you can go through here and change things, I'm going to turn off this page title. So when you click products, it's going to go right to the store page right here. And another thing we're going you can do from here is change what a single product page looks like. So let me go into this black T shirt product page. And we can change what this product page looks like. So here's some things we can see what the top rated products is on one side, we can click here to make it switch sides. Maybe we don't want that top rated products, we can turn that off by clicking the narrow width, I'm going to go back to the the right sidebar one and then see sale bad. So see how it says sale up there, we can turn that off and turn it back on, we can choose whether it's gonna show the star rating, the metadata, and go to product gallery. And I can change see how it zooms I go over it? Well, I can turn that off. So now when I scroll over is not going to zoom into the product. So you can play around with these settings until you get your product page looking exactly how you want to look how you want to look. Okay, when you're editing a product page, let me show you how you would edit these, the sidebar here. And then also the reviews. Well, the reviews, I already actually showed you a while back how to turn on and off reviews that's in the WooCommerce settings, you can say you can turn off reviews for everything or turn on reviews for everything right now they're turned on, let me show you how you would update this sidebar right here. Because I don't really like this black box right here. I do kind of like the related products, but I don't like this new cloth technologies box. So to do that, I'm going to have to go to the the main WordPress dashboard, I'm gonna go to Appearance and Widgets, that sidebar is under widgets. So the specific widget is actually this WooCommerce sidebar, and we have the top RED project products that we saw on here. And then we had this whole thing right here. So I'm just going to click this, and then click Delete. So now we're only going to have the top rated products and see when I click into top rated products, you can choose what the title of this is gonna be, how many products to show, and stuff like that. And also, I'm gonna go up here and I'm also going to delete this in the main sidebar, I'm going to delete this black thing right here. And then you can add anything else you want to the sidebar, and then I'm going to click update. Now we can go back over to that. Oh, really quick, I'll show you one more time how you would turn off the the comments. If you go to WooCommerce settings here, and then you go to products, and then you can disable that enable product reviews, you can turn off. Okay, we'll just go back to here Visit Site. Now if we go back to a product page. Now we don't have that black thing right there. Another thing we can do is change what the shopping cart looks like. So I'm going to click the shopping cart right here. So we can go to the checkout page, and they can click Proceed to Checkout here. And now we can we can change what the checkout page looks like. Like for instance, I can turn on the coupon form. And now, people can choose if they have a coupon they can do click here to enter the code. And then you can check, like what's going to be required here. And you can, you can also choose what, what's gonna show up about your privacy policy. And this is the link to the privacy policy page, which we still have to edit, I'm actually going to open up this into a new tab really quick, so I can, so we can show you how to edit the privacy policy. So to edit this privacy policy, I'm going to go back into the main WordPress menu, I'm going to go to pages. And then I'm going to find the privacy policy page, edit this. And now we can add the privacy policy, I'm just going to use all the suggested text. So I'm just going to delete where it says suggested text. And then I can click publish. Okay, now I want to make sure I'm using this right, privacy policy my my checkout page, let's go back to the checkout page. And there's a few privacy, I'm gonna choose this first privacy policy. And then we'll just click it to make sure it's the right one. Okay, that's the right one. And then make sure you click Publish here. So any changes, you always want to click Publish to make sure all the changes happen, that ecommerce site is starting to look pretty good. Now let's see how to add products to the store. So in order to add some custom products, we're going to go back to the main, the main dashboard. And I'm going to click where it says products here for do this, so it keeps saying keep suggesting that we connect monster insights, a setup website analytics. Now if we click here, it's going to go, it's going to actually walk us through all the steps that's outside the scope of this particular tutorial. So I should have done this earlier. But what I'm going to do is, is delete this plugin, so we don't have to keep seeing it, we're going to go to plugins. So before you can delete a pro plug in, you have to deactivate it. So I'm going to deactivate this plugin, and then I am going to check it. And then I'm going to just click Delete. And then if I refresh this page, oh, and to get I guess there's one more thing we have to remove, let's deactivate this. And then delete it. Now, it's no longer showing that message. Good. So let's go back to the products again. The first thing we're going to do is just remove all the products that are currently there. So I'm just going to click this. And then we are going to move to trash. And click Apply. Okay, now we can just start adding some products from scratch. So the first type of product I'm going to teach you how to create is a simple product. So this is a simple product, it has a picture, sometimes there can be additional pictures below, we only have one picture for this one, it has a title as a description, and then down here, it's going to have a more detailed description. So let me show you how you create a product like this. It's simple, because there are no options that you would have to choose. So let's go back to the main dashboard. So I'm going to click add new to add a new product, robot hat. And then we can add the description. So this description is the description that appears second on the page, that will just contain additional information about the product because the user will have already read a description. And so this could be like made in the USA, you will not want to return this. And then if we scroll down here to this other description, this is the description that the customer will see first, the short description. So I'm just going to paste in a description for the robot hat. I'm gonna go back up here and make sure we have simple product chosen here. It's not virtual or downloadable, but we could make a downloadable product. And then we can put the full price but $50 and then we can put the sale price we can also schedule how long the sale is going to happen for so I can say that it's going to start today, and it's going to go for a week. So then after That time is up, it won't show that sales price anymore. So let's go to inventory, you can have a SKU number if you have a specific number for the product, and then there's also manage stock. So if you have managed stock, you'll keep track of how much you have in stock. So I can say 10. And then if you have a stock on the product page will actually tell how many are left in stock. And then do you want to allow people to purchase it after it's not in stock and create a backorder. And then you can also choose if you want to be sold individually. And then you can put information about the shipping, like the weight, the dimensions, and then you can choose a shipping class was we don't have any setup right now. Also, you can choose linked products. Now remember, on the product page where there was some products on the side, there's products on the bottom, this is where you set those products. Now I don't actually, this is the first product I'm creating. So I don't have anything to add. But once you add a bunch of products, you can select which things are going to be considered upsells, in which things are going to be considered cross sells. So it will suggest the other products to users at various times. And then we have attributes which we will talk more later when we get to some of these other types of products. And then advance a purchase note is a note that will be sent to the customer after they purchase it. Now menu order, this changes how far up in on your page will show. So when you have a bunch of different products on your page, the lower this number, the higher it appears on the page. So the products you want to show to the user the most you want to have a lower number. And we have the reviews enabled for all the products, but you can turn off reviews for individual products here. And then we already talked about this description. Okay, the next thing we're going to do is add the product image. So go up here, set a product image. And I'm going to upload a file. And here's my product image, this robot hat. And then if you have other images, that won't be the main image, you can add them here the product gallery images, product tags, you want to give similar items, the same tag, like I'll add hat for this. And then if we add any other hats, we'll use the same tag. And then people can click the word hat, and they can see all the hats. And then we're also going to add this to the accessories category. Now another thing to just have all the accessories in the category all t shirts in the same category, and so on. Now, I kind of skipped over this before, but this gives you information about SEO and you can change the different descriptions and titles and and try to adjust the snippets are going to appear on so on search engines and other places on the web. But we're not going to go into that right now. Right now, I'm just gonna go and click publish. And we've now created a simple product. Our product is created. So let's check it out. So it says we can click on View Product right here. And we'll open up the product page. So here's the hat here, we got the title we put in. And so as it's on sale, here's the description, and we have 10 in stock. And then it shows our category and our tags here. If we click accessory, we can see all the accessories. Currently there's no other accessories. But we can go back to the product page. And then you can see here's the additional description here. And here's three views, I can even leave a review right now. Best hat ever, and then click Submit. And right now I'm logged in, it'll show the company I'm logged in at. So the your users will be able to create their own account on the store, and then they will be able to leave reviews. So we have our simple product. Now we're going to create a variable product. A variable product is just a product where you can change the options. You can maybe change the color or change the size. But like do you want to medium size a large size small size blue red. So let me show you how to create a variable product, we could go back to the product page. But even right on this page, there's a there's a new thing we can click on New and then product so we're creating a new product right now. And I'm going to call this a robot shirt. We're going to have different colors and different sizes of shirts. So to create a variable product we'll put in the description made in your country. And we're going to go down and we can just put the the full description okay, we've got the description. So now we're going to click it says symbol progress and click this and go to variable product. So some of the is going to be the same. But now we are going to have attributes and variations. So let's go to the attributes. And I'm going to add an attribute, the first is going to be size. And then it says right here into some tax, and it shows to use this to separate the attributes. This is not an eye, it's actually a vertical bar, it's on your keyboard, right on the same key as the backslash. So I'm going to put small, medium, large. Okay, I'll save the attribute. And then I'm going to add another one, which is going to be color. And we'll do red, and blue. And I'll save this. Okay, so now I have a customer will be to choose the size and the color of the shirt. Okay, so now I'm going to save the attributes. Now go to variations, and it says you need to add some variations on the Attributes tab, that we need to go back to the attributes. And there's one thing we forgot, which is to click this button that says that says use for variations. And for color, let me put that down use for variations. We'll save that. Now we'll go back to variations. And at this point, we can click this drop down menu and create variations from all attributes. And then I'll say are you sure you want to do this? Yes, we want to do that. And it's added six variations. Okay, so it's added for every, it's added every size and every color. Now here is where it gets kind of tedious, we're going to add to add information for every single variation. So we are going so all these options are very similar to the simple product options. And we're going to have to add these for every variation. So for price for the small, it's going to be $20. In stock, you can add weights, if you want, we go up here and click this image, we can upload an image. Now I'm going to upload a few files here. And I'm uploading a blue shirt, a picture of a blue shirt and a picture of a red shirt. And then I'll set this as the variation. So for this small red shirt, we're going to show the red shirt here. And then we have to go through for all these other ones. So for the small blue shirt, I'm going to add the blue shirt here, and it's going to be $20. And then we'll just keep going down here. And for the medium, it's going to be the same, it's just going to select the same image, this time, I'm going to put a different different price. So this is going to be $25. The meeting will be $25. This is just just to show an example that you can use different prices and even different sale prices for different different variations. I'll make the sale price. So this register is on sale. So I'll make this 20 Let's say you have more of that type of shirt that you just need to get rid of. And then we'll just go through and set the rest of these. Okay, after we set all these variations, I'm going to save changes. And now we can add everything that you add to the simple product. Like we can add tags, I'm going to put shirt, and then I can also go to a category select teasers for the category. And then you're still going to want to select a product image. When a product is initially shown on the store page, before the customer can choose what type of color they're looking at, it's gonna have to show just a single image. So this is the this is going to be the initial image that's going to be shown will show the blue. And that reminded me one more thing. Let's go back over to the variations. You can also set a default size and a default color to be selected. So we're going to put a default size to medium and a default color to blue, just like it's showing the blue image. Okay, now we can go up here, and we can publish. Now let's view the product to see what this looks like. Okay, see, it's showing it could be anywhere between 20 and $30, depending on which size and which color and you can see here's the blue one. But if I go to a large, it's gonna it's going to change the price to 30. If I change the color I continue to read, it should show the red shirt. And just like before, well just just like before, we'll have reviews, there's even additional information, it's going to show the different sizes possible and the different colors possible. And you can see automatically is putting related products up here. So really I don't have there's not really very many products so it's just going to show the products that we already have. Now we're gonna To create a group product, a group product is a product where there's a few different options. And each options come with different items. Like, say you're selling a camera, and you'll have a product page for the camera, but you can select just the camera, or you can select the camera in the bag, or you can select a camera bag and tripod. And each group of each group of items under the product page will have different prices. So let's see how to do that. I'm going to go to new product. So to make a group product, we have to make the main product and then we have to create all the sub products that are within the group. So since this is a robot tire store, what if we actually sold an actual robot or a robot toy, so I'm going to put robot toy for the main product. And then we can just add the descriptions. Okay, if we add the description, we can change the product to grouped product. And then we can add categories. So I actually already add a new category category called robot. And then you can add tags like Toy Fun, and then I'll just add those. And then we will add an image. So I've already uploaded this robot picture. So I'll set that as the product image, and then I will publish it. Okay, now we have to create the sub products. So I'll click Add New, and then I'll put Cosmo robot, because the robot toys gonna be a cardinal robot, we already have the description, so we don't need to add the description, all we have to do is add the price, which will set as $100. And then what we want to do is make sure it's invisible. So right now, this will just show up on the normal store page. But we want to click the Edit for the catalog visibility, and we'll have it hidden. So we'll only show up as the group product. So I'll publish this. And now I'll create two more. So let me just copy this and add new. So this is gonna be a cardinal robot plus case. And then this is just going to be $150. And then we will put the visibility to hidden. And then I'll just do one final product, which will be capital robot plus case plus extra charger, then this will be $200. And then I will, again, change the visibility and publish. Now that we have all these sub products created, let's go back to our main product page. And I will select the robot toy, the initial one and click Edit. Now we'll go down and go to linked products. And here's where we add all the linked products. So we have Cardinal robot, we have Cardinal robot plus case, and we have customer rep plus case was extra charger, no this update this product. And now we can view product to see what it looks like. Okay, so we have says robot toy. And we can choose kasma robot, cosmic robot plus case, or Cardinal probit plus case was at your charger, and you can see it has the price range of all these prices. And everything else is basically the same as the other types of products. Okay, we're going to learn about one final type of product, which is a downloadable product. So I'm going to New and click on product. So a downloadable product could be an ebook, it could be an image, it could be a zip file full of a bunch of different files. And it could be a song maybe. So we are going to actually be selling a song or robot song and and we just add the description just like all other products Okay, now we can change from, it's gonna be a simple product, but we're going to click Virtual and downloadable. So virtual means that it's not going to be shipped to anybody and downloadable means we can choose what the file is to download. So this is going to be a $3 song. And then I can add the file that's going to be downloaded. So I'm gonna go to choose file and then upload the file. And then I got had this robot song that mp3. And I don't know why I added all these extra characters at the end because that wasn't on my computer, but no problem. So now it actually puts the URL right in here. And then for the file name, I'm going to put robot song dot mp3 And then you can choose how many times a person can download it It's default to unlimited, but maybe you only want somebody to download it three times. And then how long will the download link work? So right now, it will work forever. But we can make the download link expire after a certain number of days. Let's give them one week to download the song. Okay, we'll go up here. And this add, I'm going to add make this and accessory, we could make a new category called the songs. And then for tags, we'll just put song in it Oh, yeah, also, we're going to need a picture. So I'm going to set the product image. Instead of uploading a new image, I'm just going to pick one that's already in here. So this looks like so how about this one, see, this person is actually listening to something. So we'll set that as the product image because they're listening to the song right in there. So now I'm going to publish this and we'll go to View product. Okay, so if you add this to cart and exit, go to the checkout, it will end up giving you a link to download the song. Our store has products. Now it's time to make so a customer can actually check out by configuring payment processing taxes, shipping coupons, and more. Okay, now we're going to add payments, we're going to make it so your store can accept credit cards. And to do that, we're going to add a new plugins, let's go to the plugins here. The way we're going to make it so customers can pay with a credit card is through stripe. And to do that, we're going to add a new plugin. So click Add New. And now I'm going to search for stripe. And then we have the WooCommerce stripe payment gateway. So let's install that. Okay, then I'll activate. Now let's create or login to our Stripe account. Okay, I'm here@stripe.com. And I'm going to click sign in and you click that whether you have an account yet or not. And then I'm going to you can either sign with your account or you can sign up. If this is your first time claim account, you're going to have to verify a link in your email. The great thing about stripe is it's completely free to use. Now I'll go to payments. And these are all the different things you can set as payments. And I'm going to turn stripe on and then we can connect or create a Stripe account to accept payments. So I'm going to click here connect or create a Connect account, we already created the account. And then it's going to go through this, they just want to verify my phone number. So enter my phone number here. And now we'll connect the account. And now we'll just put an information about the business like address and other things. And then you can even put your bank account information so you can get your payout from stripe. Okay, we got done, I got done putting in all the really personal information to get this Stripe account set up and connected. Now we're gonna update what shows up on your store website when someone's paying by stripe. Instead of credit card stripe, let's just call it credit card. People don't necessarily have to know that it's using Stripe. And luckily the keys from the Stripe account automatically got switched over here. Okay, now we have to we have a few things disabled that way to fix. So it says that the payments payouts is disabled until missing business information is updated. I'm gonna go here Edit Account keys. And we have to add this URL to the Stripe account settings. So I'll copy that endpoint and add the endpoint. We're just going to listen for all endpoints, I'll click Add events and then add endpoint. Now we just have to copy this web hook hook secret and go back to WooCommerce. And I'm just going to paste it in right here. And then save live keys. Okay, we can now accept payments. We can accept payments. We can't do payouts yet until we put in a little information, a little more information on the stripe page. But we can receive the payments. And then once we update more information about like our bank account and stuff like that, then we can accept the payouts so on stripe if you want to test it out, you can enable test mode here and then when you're done testing it make sure you turn test mode off and Stripe gives you some test card numbers. So if I click here gonna open up these test card numbers that you can use. So when you're testing your website, you can use these test numbers. They're not real numbers, but stripe, you can use this to test an order with stripe. Okay, let's go back over here, we're going to set up one more method of payment. So I'm going to click payment here. And now I'm going to set up payment with PayPal. So you can set up any of these types of payments, and it will no matter which one you pick, it's going to walk you through that. But for this tutorial, I'm just showing stripe and PayPal. So I'm going to install another plugin. So I'm gonna click on plugins here. And I'm just going to search for or excellent, click Add New. And then I'm going to search for PayPal. Okay, WooCommerce PayPal payments, install now. And Activate. Okay, now I can just go to WooCommerce, Settings, and then payments. And then I can come down to where it says PayPal, turn that on. And then I'm going to connect to PayPal. Just like with stripe, I'm going to create a PayPal account, or maybe you already have one, I'm just going to sign into my PayPal account that I already have. And you'll have to make sure it's a PayPal business account. So I'm gonna create a new business account, you're going to set up a PayPal business account. But after you do all that, you can go back to WordPress. And then we're going to enable the PayPal gateway. So you can can't change what is going to look like. But most of this you can can just keep the default settings. The only thing you may want to do is decide whether you're going to use sandbox mode to test it, or you want to actually turn it on for real. So we'll leave sandbox mode off. So we'll have it turned on for real. And then I'll just save changes. Okay, now we have two forms of payments, set up stripe for credit cards. And then we also have PayPal, we're going to test it all out in a moment. But first, let's set up the tax. So to get taxes to work, we have this tax tab here. But to make it even easier, we're gonna we're gonna install another plugin. So I'm going to go down to plugins again. And this time, I'm just gonna go directly to add new plugin. And I'm going to search for tax. And then we're going to look for WooCommerce shipping and tax. So this is going to make it much easier to set up both the shipping and tax. That's the great thing about WordPress is that there's plugins for basically anything to help make different things easier. Okay, now I'm going to activate it. And now it's going to say it's going to tell me to install jetpack and connect. So to make this easy tax system work, you're going to have to install jetpack and other thing and also create a jetpack account. But it's going to make things way easier to set than the setup taxes manually for every state installation failed destination folder already exists. This could mean that it tried to install and something messed up in the installation. And then when it tried to install again, the folder was already there. So to actually to remove that the folder, we're actually going to go back to hosting her and we're going to have to go to our hosting account for robot attire. So let me go to manage and now I'm going to have to go to where we can actually to access the actual files that make up WordPress and be able to find that folder and delete. So let me scroll down a little bit here and I'm going to go to File Manager now you have to be very careful when you're in the file manager because you've messed something up something here. It can mess up a lot of things on your website. I'm going to open this okay now to find wp content. Now plugins and now I'm going to find jetpack and I'm just going to delete this jetpack folder by clicking the Delete button up here. Okay, now that Jetpack is deleted we can go back to our hosting our page and I'm Just going to refresh this so we can try installing jetpack again. So I'm going to click install now. Okay to install, I can just activate this now. Now I have to set it up. So setup jetpack. Like I said, I'm going to have to create an account I'm just going to create an account with my Google login. And we can choose any of these paid plans. But if we scroll down a little bit, we can just do jet pack free, so we're just going to use the free version. And then you just set the some things here and then make sure to not choose anything that costs money. I'm just click dot not now for all these things. Okay, this is setup, we don't actually have to get this this plan here. So I'm going to go back to WooCommerce and back to settings. Now at the tax Okay, now we have the option to enable automated taxes, this is going to make everything work way easier. If you don't have automated taxes, you have to set up the taxes individually for each state, and each place that you're shipping to or shipping from. But automated taxes, we'll just figure that out all on on its own, it will see it says your tax rate and tags will be automatically configured for Michigan United States that's right live, if you live somewhere else, it will just enable it will just automatically figure out the taxes from where you're shipping from. And where we're enabling prices exclusive of tax, so the tax will be added extra. And then we're going to calculate tax baseline customer shipping address most of this, you're just going to use exactly how it's set. So I'm just going to click Save Changes. Okay, now we can do something similar with shipping, I'm gonna go to shipping. So we're going to create some shipping zones. It says right here, shipping zone is a geographic region where a certain set of shipping methods and rates apply. And we're going to add a shipping zone. And then you're going to choose where the zone. So let's make a zipping shipping zone called United States. And then I'll I'm going to ship and I'm going to choose United States. So for the entire United States, we're going to add certain shipping methods. So the first one, so we have a few options, we have the flat rate free shipping or local pickup. So I'm gonna click add shipping method for a flat rate. Now I can edit this. So some places, depending on where you're located, sometimes shipping will be taxable. And a lot of places it's not suddenly click none, but you'll you're gonna have to look at your area wherever you're based off out to see if you should tax the shipping or not. So I'm going to put a flat rate of just about $6. And I'll save the changes. Now we can add another shipping method. So let's say we have free shipping, but we only want free shipping as someone spends enough money. So I'm gonna go to edit. And free shipping requires what does it require? Well, maybe a shipping coupon, we'll talk about coupons in a little bit here, or maybe a minimum order amount, you can see there's different options, I'm gonna do a minimum order amount, so I'm going to make someone spend at least $30 to get free shipping. When do coupons apply are going to apply minimum order rule before the coupon discount or after the coupon discount Moses to after the coupon discount, and then click Save Changes. So now people have the option of the flat rate or the free shipping. So we added this shipping zone, we're also going to add another shipping zone. So I'm gonna click shipping zone here. And then we have United States. But let's say we want to ship to another country, like maybe we want to ship to Canada. So the shipping is gonna cost a little more since I'm based in the United States. And I'll do all of Canada. And here we're gonna do a flat rate and it's going to be this time $10 It's a little more because we have to ship it a little further. And then I can go back to shipping zone. And then you can see you can also do local pickup if you want to add your specific city or state and then you can choose local pickup. Okay, let's look at some of these options here. So you can choose whether you want to hide the shipping cost until an address entered or just depending on what you want to look like to the customer. Now Shipping Classes allows you to create different shipping costs for different types of products. So maybe some products, you'll be charging $5 for shipping, some products, you'll be charging $10 for shipping, I'm not going to show you this in this tutorial, but you can add different Shipping Classes, and then set your products to to go with that shipping class. And then that product will, will be charged that shipping rate. But let's go to this next step here WooCommerce shipping. And this is because we have the plugin installed, we have the WooCommerce shipping plugin, and it allows us to automatically print shipping labels, and save a trip to the post office. So you can choose some settings like where how are you going to print the labels. And then if you want to be able to purchase shipping labels right through here. And so I'm just going to leave this all as it is. Okay, now we're going to learn about creating coupon codes, it's actually pretty simple. So on the WooCommerce area here, I'm gonna click on coupons. It's telling us actually, on this new version, the coupon management has moved. So let's remove the legacy coupon menu. So we'll just be using the new coupon menu, which is now in marketing coupons. And all this, you can either click on Create Your First coupon or just add coupon, I'll click on Add coupon because it's the method that you're going to be using the most. And then we can just create the coupon code. And I'm going to create the code rope robots are amazing. This description is really just for you. And I'll put robot coupon. And then there's a few different types of coupons you can make, you can make a percentage discount, so everything's going to be 10% off a fixed cart discount. So you get $5 off your order, or a fixed product discount, which is a discount that only applies to one specific product. So what I'm going to do is create a percentage discount. So we can put 10%. And then you can choose whether you want to always allow free shipping, or maybe maybe not. So the coupon can include free shipping, or it cannot and then you can choose when it expires. So let's say it expires here a week later. And then we can go over to usage restrictions. So how much do they have to spend to be able to use the coupon? So let's say they have to spend $20 To use the coupon. And what's the maximum number, you may have no maximum. But maybe you don't want them to be able to use a coupon on an order that's over $500. And then you can choose whether the coupon can be used with other coupons or not, whether it should exclude sale items. And then here is where you would choose if a coupon applied only to a specific product. Or if a product would be excluded from a coupon. You know, there's some things that never go on sale like have you ever seen a Nintendo Switch on sale? Well, they would have that excluded. And then you can apply the coupon only specific categories exclude categories. And then if you only want certain email addresses to be able to use it. So only certain people can use the coupon, you can put it here. And then we have the usage limit. So how many times can this coupon be used? Well, after 500 times a coupon can no longer be used anymore. So how many here is how many items you can use it for. So how many how full your cart can be. And then how many times can each user use a coupon, we'll just put one time, that makes sense. Each user can only use the coupon one time, obviously, someone could just create a new account and use it again. But that limits it somewhat. And I'm going to publish this coupon. Okay, at this point, we're gonna test all this, I'm gonna go to the store and purchase something and use this coupon. So let me go to the store, visit Store or visit site or visit store, go to products, and x, I already have two things in my cart from before, oh, an item which is no longer available as you move from your cart. Well, I'll remove this too. So I can do the whole thing from the beginning. So let me go to the shop. And I am going to get a hat. So I just add, I just could click Add cart. And then here you can add to the khaki to select the options first. So I'm going to get a small shirt. That's the color red. And I will add this to cart. And so we have this options here where you can pay without even going to the cart. Actually, let's turn that off. Because we want someone to actually have to go to the cart before they pay. Okay, I'm on WooCommerce setting them on payments. And I'm going to go down to where it says Pay Pal. I'm going to manage that and then I'm going to scroll down where it says sync little product page. And then I'm going to disable enable on single product. So now it's not going to show up on the product page will still show up on the cart though, and I'm going to save changes. And one more thing I'm going to do and we go back to the Payments tab, and then I'm going to go to the stripe payment settings. And we are going to disable this Express checkouts, so it's not going to show these Express Checkout buttons. Okay, now let's go back to our product page. Can I'll just refresh the cart page, and you can see those buttons are gone. So I'll add a medium of a small red shirt, add to cart. Okay, now I'm going to view the cart. Okay, these two cards, I thought he added a hat. Let me go back and add a hat really quick. And add to cart. Okay, now view the cart. Okay, so now I have two shirts and the hat. Now I'm going to a plot apply coupon. So robots are amazing. Apply the coupon. Okay, now you can see that we've got an A $9 discount. And I can choose between Fred flat rate or free shipping. Good, because remember, we set free shipping, as long as the amount is over $50. It's sewing that shipping to Michigan. And then I'll proceed to checkout. Okay, now I can put in some of my information here. Then I'm going to put in a demo credit card number from stripe. And then he I don't think the numbers here matter when I'm using the demo. Oh, yeah, it could be in in test mode to test the cart. So let me go back over to this menu. I'm going to quickly go to Manage stripe, and then enable test mode. Okay, let me save that. And then I have to when I'm in test mode, you have to have special test keys. So good edit account keys. Oh, see, there's the live keys and there's the test keys. So let me get the publishable key and then the test secret key. And then the test secret web hook. So we're setting this up, just like before. And I'm gonna add endpoint. And then I just need to copy this ID put it in here and save test keys. Okay, I'm going to refresh the page, put in the billing information. And then I'll put in this test credit card information. And then place order. And thank you your order has been received. Now let's go look at our administrator email account. So here's the administrator email account. So we get an email when we receive an order, and it's showing new order, you've received an order from Beau Carnes and it has all the information it has the shipping address. Now let's go to our administrator dashboard. Now if we go to orders here, we can see the order it says order from Beau Carnes is processing. So three items are rage fulfilled, I could create the shipping labels in the product and go from processing to completed. And then I'm going to update that. And then in this Customers tab, we can now see the customer would There's a new customer. And then we can go to the Reports tab, showing how much we've how much money we've made. And then the Orders tab, we still have that order in there. Finally, we are going to talk about the emails that get sent to the customers. So I'm gonna go to Settings, and then emails. So here you can check the emails that get sent for various reasons. So we already have the emails go to the administrator email for New Order, cancelled order failed order. But then an email would get sent to customers for all these other things such as a completed order processing order. And if you click on Manage, you can choose what the email is going to look like you can enable or disable the email notification, you can change the subject email heading additional content, so you can choose what email that you the customer is going to get. And one thing to notice if I go back to the email tab here, it has this message here. So in case if you get this all set up and the email does not arrive to the customer, you're gonna have to look at this here to ensure your stores notifications arrive in your and your customers inboxes we recommend connecting your email address to your domain and setting up a dedicated SMTP server. Something doesn't seem to be saying correctly install the WP mail logging plugin so It could just work out of the box. But if it doesn't, I would recommend installing this plugin. And it's pretty straightforward. I'm not going to show in this tutorial, but I will just take you step by step into getting it working. And then that will make it more likely that your email will get to your customer. Okay, we're almost done, there is one more loose end I want to cover, which is this top bar here where it has don't miss our holiday off for 20% off, well, we probably don't want that because it may not be a holiday. So I'm gonna go to Customize. And then I'm gonna go to header. And here's the top row. So if you remember, there was the social icons on the right side, and then we have the message on this side. So I'm going to click here. And now here we can change what message is in this top row here. So maybe instead of the the holiday, instead of talking about the holiday offer, we can say check out our new hats. And then you can actually make this a link and you can link it to your hat page. So I'm just gonna whoops, publish this. Another thing I could do is just remove this completely. So if I just exon socials, and exon top row, or exon, this HTML thing, and I publish it. Now if I go to my website, I'll just exit out of this. Now we don't even have that row at the top. So you may just not even want that top bar. The store is complete. You now know how to set up a fully functioning e commerce website. There are a ton of settings and plugins that we didn't even get to. So feel free to just explore the different options and see how you can customize your store even more. Good luck with selling your products.