With timestamps:

00:05 - My name is Federico Gomez-Suarez.
00:06 - I'm originally from Pueblo, Mexico.
00:08 - Most of my family are engineers
00:10 - but they are engineers who do things
00:12 - with their hands
00:14 - I turned out to be an engineer who codes
00:20 - I write software which scans images
00:22 - looking for bad images. Images that we know are illegal.
00:26 - I work very closely with organizations
like the national center for missing children
00:29 - at the end of the day the kind
of content that we work on is content
00:34 - we just don't want to have online and we are
impacting the people who have been
00:40 - affected by that content
00:42 - I'm just making sure it doesn't get distributed again. When I was about 12 or 13
00:48 - there was a research lab close to where.
I used to live. Turned out that they needed.
00:54 - Someone who could code, I really couldn't code at that time but I said I'll do it.
00:58 - I'll work on this for the summer so I
started working at the lab and I had
01:03 - there my book of C language that I was
just reading through trying to learn how
01:06 - to move this little engine and it took
me forever to just figure it out but
01:11 - eventually worked. I just enjoy doing it
01:14 - I would stay late at night until I
started working and I realized that
01:18 - there was something I really liked doing. When I
was in my freshman year in Mexico, in a
01:23 - small school I decided I wanted to work
for any other big companies in the US so
01:29 - I sent my resume to every company I knew
01:33 - and I didn't hear anything for a year.
All of the sudden, I got an email saying
01:37 - Microsoft was coming to recruit and I
prepared, went all in and I didn't pass
01:43 - the first interview but they saw that I
was so passionate about doing something
01:47 - with code that they interviewed me the next
year and after that I ended up coming
01:52 - here to Microsoft. To solve a real-life
problem is not only about the code, the
01:59 - code is a piece of it but you need to think
about the whole in a system. And Microsoft
02:03 - has people who have expertise in all the
different areas so I meet with lawyers
02:08 - I meet with business analyst. I meet with
different people in the company to be
02:12 - able to understand the problem better
and together trying to really find a
02:16 - solution. Usually I spend the mornings meetings
and do that kind of work and then in
02:21 - evening I just put my headphones on and
you start coding. Find something that
02:28 - you're passionate about like a problem
in the world that you think is important
02:33 - and then look how you can partner
with nonprofit or find people who are
02:38 - already working there and help them. You
know use your skill, use your passion, use
02:45 - your energy to help solve a problem. You
will realize that you can bring a lot to
02:51 - the table, come up with new ideas on how
you can have impact, just keep knocking
02:55 - doors eventually one does open.
03:09 - Subtitles by the Amara.org community

Cleaned transcript:

My name is Federico GomezSuarez. I'm originally from Pueblo, Mexico. Most of my family are engineers but they are engineers who do things with their hands I turned out to be an engineer who codes I write software which scans images looking for bad images. Images that we know are illegal. I work very closely with organizations like the national center for missing children at the end of the day the kind of content that we work on is content we just don't want to have online and we are impacting the people who have been affected by that content I'm just making sure it doesn't get distributed again. When I was about 12 or 13 there was a research lab close to where. I used to live. Turned out that they needed. Someone who could code, I really couldn't code at that time but I said I'll do it. I'll work on this for the summer so I started working at the lab and I had there my book of C language that I was just reading through trying to learn how to move this little engine and it took me forever to just figure it out but eventually worked. I just enjoy doing it I would stay late at night until I started working and I realized that there was something I really liked doing. When I was in my freshman year in Mexico, in a small school I decided I wanted to work for any other big companies in the US so I sent my resume to every company I knew and I didn't hear anything for a year. All of the sudden, I got an email saying Microsoft was coming to recruit and I prepared, went all in and I didn't pass the first interview but they saw that I was so passionate about doing something with code that they interviewed me the next year and after that I ended up coming here to Microsoft. To solve a reallife problem is not only about the code, the code is a piece of it but you need to think about the whole in a system. And Microsoft has people who have expertise in all the different areas so I meet with lawyers I meet with business analyst. I meet with different people in the company to be able to understand the problem better and together trying to really find a solution. Usually I spend the mornings meetings and do that kind of work and then in evening I just put my headphones on and you start coding. Find something that you're passionate about like a problem in the world that you think is important and then look how you can partner with nonprofit or find people who are already working there and help them. You know use your skill, use your passion, use your energy to help solve a problem. You will realize that you can bring a lot to the table, come up with new ideas on how you can have impact, just keep knocking doors eventually one does open. Subtitles by the Amara.org community
