With timestamps:

00:06 - Let's take another look at your big game.
00:10 - Last time you animated the target and danger
sprites to move across the screen.
00:14 - But when they left the screen they never came
back!
00:18 - We're going to use Booleans to bring them
back to the screen so they move across the
00:21 - screen repeatedly.
00:23 - In the last stage, you learned how to keep
Sam the Bat from leaving his backyard by using
00:28 - a Boolean to see if he was Safe Left and Safe
Right.
00:33 - Now you're going to add the same functionality
to your video game.
00:37 - Each time your target and danger moves, the
video game engine will send their x coordinates
00:43 - to the Onscreen function.
00:45 - If Onscreen returns false, that means the
sprite has gone off the screen and the engine
00:50 - will take care of resetting it to the opposite
side.
00:53 - Just like you did with Sam the Bat, you'll
want to first complete the Safe Left and Safe
00:58 - Right functions before combining them both
in Onscreen.
01:08 - Subtitles by the Amara.org community

Cleaned transcript:

Let's take another look at your big game. Last time you animated the target and danger sprites to move across the screen. But when they left the screen they never came back! We're going to use Booleans to bring them back to the screen so they move across the screen repeatedly. In the last stage, you learned how to keep Sam the Bat from leaving his backyard by using a Boolean to see if he was Safe Left and Safe Right. Now you're going to add the same functionality to your video game. Each time your target and danger moves, the video game engine will send their x coordinates to the Onscreen function. If Onscreen returns false, that means the sprite has gone off the screen and the engine will take care of resetting it to the opposite side. Just like you did with Sam the Bat, you'll want to first complete the Safe Left and Safe Right functions before combining them both in Onscreen. Subtitles by the Amara.org community
