With timestamps:

00:07 - Let's get back into the video game that you
started working on earlier.
00:11 - This time, we're going to add animation to
writing functions to animate the target and
00:17 - danger sprites.
00:19 - Functions are a key part of animation in computer
programs.
00:23 - A function that draws a static picture of
your danger for example can place the sprite
00:28 - at a different place depending on the input.
00:31 - When that input changes slightly based on
time or user interaction, the sprite will
00:37 - appear to move.
00:38 - This is similar to the way that flipbook animations
work, in which each page draws a static image
00:45 - that is changed by a small amount.
00:48 - When the pages are displayed quickly, the
images appear to change smoothly.
00:53 - To make the target and danger sprites move
across the screen, you will modify the update-target
00:59 - and update-danger functions.
01:02 - These functions will take in the current x
coordinate of each sprite and return a new
01:07 - x coordinate that is either greater than the
previous x coordinate if it wants to move
01:12 - from left to right or less than the previous
x coordinate if it wants to move from right
01:17 - to left.
01:19 - At the end of this stage, your target and
danger should move across the screen but never
01:24 - return.
01:25 - That's a problem for another day.
01:33 - Subtitles by the Amara.org community

Cleaned transcript:

Let's get back into the video game that you started working on earlier. This time, we're going to add animation to writing functions to animate the target and danger sprites. Functions are a key part of animation in computer programs. A function that draws a static picture of your danger for example can place the sprite at a different place depending on the input. When that input changes slightly based on time or user interaction, the sprite will appear to move. This is similar to the way that flipbook animations work, in which each page draws a static image that is changed by a small amount. When the pages are displayed quickly, the images appear to change smoothly. To make the target and danger sprites move across the screen, you will modify the updatetarget and updatedanger functions. These functions will take in the current x coordinate of each sprite and return a new x coordinate that is either greater than the previous x coordinate if it wants to move from left to right or less than the previous x coordinate if it wants to move from right to left. At the end of this stage, your target and danger should move across the screen but never return. That's a problem for another day. Subtitles by the Amara.org community
