With timestamps:

00:04 - This widget allows you to experiment
with techniques for compressing text.
00:08 - Your goal is to represent the original
text with as few bites as possible.
00:13 - Let's look at how the tool works.
00:15 - The widget presents you with a piece of text to compress.
00:18 - You can type patterns that you see
appearing in the text.
00:21 - For now, let's just look for words that repeat.
00:23 - As you type, a single symbol will be substituted
00:27 - In the example here you can see
00:29 - each occurrence of the word "pitter" has been replaced the symbol of a sun,
00:33 - and "patter" has been replaced with an
umbrella.
00:36 - If you sent the compressed version of the poem to someone,
00:39 - you'd also have to send along the dictionary so the person could reconstruct the original text.
00:45 - So the question is, is the total number of bits in the compressed text plus the bites in the dictionary
00:51 - less than the number of bytes in the original text?
00:54 - The answer is yes for our current example, and the widget shows you how it's calculated.
00:59 - We assume that every character that needs to be sent takes one byte.
01:03 - So the display shows that current version of the poem with the symbols substituted in it has 53 bytes or characters.
01:11 - It also shows the number of bytes in the dictionary as 14.
01:15 - The characters for text of "pitter" and
"patter" add up to 12,
01:19 - but we also need to include the single sun and umbrella symbols in the count.
01:25 - This gives us a total of 67 bytes: 53 for the poem, 14 for the dictionary.
01:30 - We can see that the original plain text had ninety three characters or bytes,
01:35 - so we've reduced the bytes needed
to represent the poem by 26 bytes,
01:40 - which works out to almost 28 percent compression.
01:44 - Looking for words that repeat is a good
start on trying to compress a piece of text,
01:49 - but you can train yourself to look for other patterns of characters.
01:53 - For example, you may have noticed that
"pitter" and "patter" both repeat the characters "t-t-e-r".
02:00 - If we put that in the dictionary, it's really good because "t-t-e-r" repeats more frequently,
02:06 - so we get a single character
substitution for more parts of the poem.
02:10 - Now, here's where it really gets cool.
02:13 - You might begin to notice patterns that include dictionary symbols themselves.
02:17 - For example, the original word "pitter" is now "p-i" with a sun symbol in place of "t-t-e-r",
02:25 - but "p-i-sun" also repeats in the poem.
02:29 - Within the dictionary you can actually referenced earlier entries in the dictionary.
02:33 - I can do that by typing "p-i", and then I can copy and paste the sun symbol from anywhere it appears on the page.
02:41 - I can also just copy a pattern that I
find straight out of the poem text.
02:45 - Let me do that for "p-a-sun".
02:48 - Cool!  And then I notice that there's a pattern with umbrellas and snowmen.  Let me copy that, too.
02:54 - So now the single comet symbol is standing in for a bunch of text, and we get it to compress a little bit
more.
03:02 - To reconstruct the original, you have to work your way up from the bottom the dictionary, substituting along the way.
03:09 - Remember, though, a line in the dictionary can only reference previous entries.
03:14 - This can catch you if you accidentally introduce a pattern later in the dictionary that invalidates a previous entry.
03:21 - The widget will give you a warning and prevent you from creating an entry that references something further down in the dictionary

Cleaned transcript:

This widget allows you to experiment with techniques for compressing text. Your goal is to represent the original text with as few bites as possible. Let's look at how the tool works. The widget presents you with a piece of text to compress. You can type patterns that you see appearing in the text. For now, let's just look for words that repeat. As you type, a single symbol will be substituted In the example here you can see each occurrence of the word "pitter" has been replaced the symbol of a sun, and "patter" has been replaced with an umbrella. If you sent the compressed version of the poem to someone, you'd also have to send along the dictionary so the person could reconstruct the original text. So the question is, is the total number of bits in the compressed text plus the bites in the dictionary less than the number of bytes in the original text? The answer is yes for our current example, and the widget shows you how it's calculated. We assume that every character that needs to be sent takes one byte. So the display shows that current version of the poem with the symbols substituted in it has 53 bytes or characters. It also shows the number of bytes in the dictionary as 14. The characters for text of "pitter" and "patter" add up to 12, but we also need to include the single sun and umbrella symbols in the count. This gives us a total of 67 bytes 53 for the poem, 14 for the dictionary. We can see that the original plain text had ninety three characters or bytes, so we've reduced the bytes needed to represent the poem by 26 bytes, which works out to almost 28 percent compression. Looking for words that repeat is a good start on trying to compress a piece of text, but you can train yourself to look for other patterns of characters. For example, you may have noticed that "pitter" and "patter" both repeat the characters "tter". If we put that in the dictionary, it's really good because "tter" repeats more frequently, so we get a single character substitution for more parts of the poem. Now, here's where it really gets cool. You might begin to notice patterns that include dictionary symbols themselves. For example, the original word "pitter" is now "pi" with a sun symbol in place of "tter", but "pisun" also repeats in the poem. Within the dictionary you can actually referenced earlier entries in the dictionary. I can do that by typing "pi", and then I can copy and paste the sun symbol from anywhere it appears on the page. I can also just copy a pattern that I find straight out of the poem text. Let me do that for "pasun". Cool! And then I notice that there's a pattern with umbrellas and snowmen. Let me copy that, too. So now the single comet symbol is standing in for a bunch of text, and we get it to compress a little bit more. To reconstruct the original, you have to work your way up from the bottom the dictionary, substituting along the way. Remember, though, a line in the dictionary can only reference previous entries. This can catch you if you accidentally introduce a pattern later in the dictionary that invalidates a previous entry. The widget will give you a warning and prevent you from creating an entry that references something further down in the dictionary
