With timestamps:

00:02 - So what grade are you in? Second. Tenth grade.
First grade. I was in eighth grade when I
00:09 - learned to program. I got my first computer
when I was in sixth grade. What gets me excited
00:16 - is being able to fix people's problems. You
can express yourself, you can build things
00:21 - from an idea. Computer science is the basis
for a lot of the things that college students
00:26 - and professionals will do for the next twenty
or thirty years. I like programming because
00:31 - I like helping people. I get the opportunity
to build something that's gonna make people's
00:36 - lives easier. I think it's the closest thing
we have to a superpower. Getting started is
00:41 - the most important part. I'm a beginner myself
and I want you to learn with me. I'm John
00:47 - Vechey, I'm one of the co-founders of PopCap
Games. We make games like Plants vs. Zombies,
00:52 - Bejeweled, and Peggle. A lot about games isn't
how perfect your code is, it's not how perfect
00:57 - your art is, it's about how does it feel and
how much fun it is. You can only get that
01:02 - sense by trying it, by doing it, by learning
and adapting and iterating your own skills
01:06 - of making games. Do you have a favorite video
game? Well, we're going to take one step towards
01:11 - creating games just like that using Play Lab.
Good games have a story and every story has
01:17 - actors. Actors do things like speak, move,
and interact with each other. Maybe even score
01:22 - points based on the rules of the game. Today
we'll be learning how to do all these things,
01:27 - one by one, with Disney's characters like
Anna, Elsa, Hiro, Baymax, and Rapunzel. We'll
01:33 - build a game from scratch that can be shared
and played on a phone. Your screen is split
01:39 - into three main parts. On the left is the
gamespace, where your program will run. The
01:44 - instructions for each level are written below.
This middle area is the toolbox, and each
01:50 - of these blocks is a piece of code. The white
space on the right is called the workspace,
01:55 - and this is where we'll build our program.
To start off, you'll need to link your blocks
02:02 - to the orange "when run" block. You can link
multiple blocks together by dragging them
02:07 - out until you see the yellow outline, and
then they'll snap together. In this first
02:13 - puzzle, Hiro is Actor 1 and Baymax is Actor
2. We need to move Hiro to get to Baymax by
02:19 - dragging the "move right" block out and linking
it to the "when run" block. Once you have
02:24 - your blocks in place, hit the "Run" button
to see what you've programmed. Get started
02:29 - and by the end you'll be able to create your
own game with these amazing actors that can
02:34 - interact, score points, throw microbots, cherries,
saucepans, sparkles, and ice.. and vanish
02:40 - each other. It's all up to you!

Cleaned transcript:

So what grade are you in? Second. Tenth grade. First grade. I was in eighth grade when I learned to program. I got my first computer when I was in sixth grade. What gets me excited is being able to fix people's problems. You can express yourself, you can build things from an idea. Computer science is the basis for a lot of the things that college students and professionals will do for the next twenty or thirty years. I like programming because I like helping people. I get the opportunity to build something that's gonna make people's lives easier. I think it's the closest thing we have to a superpower. Getting started is the most important part. I'm a beginner myself and I want you to learn with me. I'm John Vechey, I'm one of the cofounders of PopCap Games. We make games like Plants vs. Zombies, Bejeweled, and Peggle. A lot about games isn't how perfect your code is, it's not how perfect your art is, it's about how does it feel and how much fun it is. You can only get that sense by trying it, by doing it, by learning and adapting and iterating your own skills of making games. Do you have a favorite video game? Well, we're going to take one step towards creating games just like that using Play Lab. Good games have a story and every story has actors. Actors do things like speak, move, and interact with each other. Maybe even score points based on the rules of the game. Today we'll be learning how to do all these things, one by one, with Disney's characters like Anna, Elsa, Hiro, Baymax, and Rapunzel. We'll build a game from scratch that can be shared and played on a phone. Your screen is split into three main parts. On the left is the gamespace, where your program will run. The instructions for each level are written below. This middle area is the toolbox, and each of these blocks is a piece of code. The white space on the right is called the workspace, and this is where we'll build our program. To start off, you'll need to link your blocks to the orange "when run" block. You can link multiple blocks together by dragging them out until you see the yellow outline, and then they'll snap together. In this first puzzle, Hiro is Actor 1 and Baymax is Actor 2. We need to move Hiro to get to Baymax by dragging the "move right" block out and linking it to the "when run" block. Once you have your blocks in place, hit the "Run" button to see what you've programmed. Get started and by the end you'll be able to create your own game with these amazing actors that can interact, score points, throw microbots, cherries, saucepans, sparkles, and ice.. and vanish each other. It's all up to you!
