With timestamps:

00:00 - Computers are really good at repeating actions.
00:03 - You can count to ten, or twenty or one hundred...
00:07 - But a computer can count to a billion or even a trillion.
00:11 - It won't get bored and it will only take a few seconds.
00:15 - Whether it's counting or drawing or anything, 
Computers can repeat things hundreds or even billions of times.
00:22 - In programming, we call this a loop.
00:25 - A loop is how you repeat your code over and over again.
00:30 - For the next puzzle,
your goal is to help Anna to create a square with the repeat block.
00:35 - Any blocks of code you put inside a repeat block, 
will be repeated in sequence, as many times as you want.
00:42 - To draw a square, you can use the "move forward" and "turn" block 4 times.
00:48 - The easier way is to tell the computer to move forward and turn by 90 degrees once 
and then tell the computer to repeat these actions four times.
00:59 - To do that, you need to place the move forward and turn right in a repeat block.
01:04 - Remember, you can change the number in the repeat-block to anything, and it will repeat the actions in the block that many times.
01:12 - [ Anna draws a square with her Foot ]

Cleaned transcript:

Computers are really good at repeating actions. You can count to ten, or twenty or one hundred... But a computer can count to a billion or even a trillion. It won't get bored and it will only take a few seconds. Whether it's counting or drawing or anything, Computers can repeat things hundreds or even billions of times. In programming, we call this a loop. A loop is how you repeat your code over and over again. For the next puzzle, your goal is to help Anna to create a square with the repeat block. Any blocks of code you put inside a repeat block, will be repeated in sequence, as many times as you want. To draw a square, you can use the "move forward" and "turn" block 4 times. The easier way is to tell the computer to move forward and turn by 90 degrees once and then tell the computer to repeat these actions four times. To do that, you need to place the move forward and turn right in a repeat block. Remember, you can change the number in the repeatblock to anything, and it will repeat the actions in the block that many times. [ Anna draws a square with her Foot ]
