With timestamps:

00:06 - You can animate with sprites too!
00:09 - To do this, you'll need to update their properties inside the draw loop using the counter pattern.
00:16 - For example, this program creates a sprite called "mySprite" then, inside the draw loop, it uses
00:24 - the counter pattern to increase the
sprite's 'X' position by one in each frame.
00:30 - This makes the sprite move smoothly
across the screen.
00:35 - Adding a second sprite to a program is easy.
00:38 - You just use the create sprite command again.
00:42 - This program animates two sprites called
sprite1 and sprite2.
00:47 - 'sprite1' uses the counter pattern to move across the screen by adding 1 to its 'X' property.
00:53 - 'sprite2' moves down by adding 1 to the 'Y' property on each tick of the draw loop.
01:00 - These sprites have lots of other properties, but our program only needs to deal with the ones that are changing.
01:08 - Sprites already helped you write more 
readable programs
01:11 - and they are going to be
extremely helpful and powerful tools for
01:15 - making fun games and animations, so stay tuned!

Cleaned transcript:

You can animate with sprites too! To do this, you'll need to update their properties inside the draw loop using the counter pattern. For example, this program creates a sprite called "mySprite" then, inside the draw loop, it uses the counter pattern to increase the sprite's 'X' position by one in each frame. This makes the sprite move smoothly across the screen. Adding a second sprite to a program is easy. You just use the create sprite command again. This program animates two sprites called sprite1 and sprite2. 'sprite1' uses the counter pattern to move across the screen by adding 1 to its 'X' property. 'sprite2' moves down by adding 1 to the 'Y' property on each tick of the draw loop. These sprites have lots of other properties, but our program only needs to deal with the ones that are changing. Sprites already helped you write more readable programs and they are going to be extremely helpful and powerful tools for making fun games and animations, so stay tuned!
