With timestamps:

00:04 - Hi! My name is Amanda, and I'm 
a product manager at Code.org.
00:08 - This video will show you how to: 1. See a 
summary of your student's progress on Code.org,
00:14 - 2. Review and leave feedback on student work, 
and 3. Administer one of Code.org assessments.
00:21 - Many of the features in this video are available only to verified teachers.
00:26 - To learn more about becoming a verified teacher, check out the support article in the resources.
00:32 - To view a summary of your students' progress on an assigned course, click the name of a classroom section on your homepage.
00:40 - The "Progress" tab shows which course activities the 
students in the section have worked on.
00:46 - Lessons in the course are represented by squares.
00:50 - If I click on a lesson I can see which specific levels in that lesson, students have worked on.
00:56 - As students complete more and more of the online activities in the course,
01:01 - their lessons and levels will 
turn green.
01:03 - Many levels in our elementary school courses are automatically evaluated for correctness, so a solid green level means students
01:09 - got the correct solution. In our middle and high 
school courses however, programming levels have
01:14 - many possible solutions, and will not be 
automatically validated.
01:19 - In these courses, we recommend choosing one or two activities 
per lesson to review. You can find recommended
01:26 - assessment opportunities by looking for a 
check mark icon on levels or in lesson plans.
01:35 - If I want to review Bill's work on this assessment opportunity,
01:38 - I can click the level next to his name.
01:43 - Now I can see his code, and 
even run it to see if it works.
01:48 - In CS Discoveries and CS Principles 
courses, teachers can leave feedback
01:52 - for their students, in the feedback tab. 
When I enter and save feedback for Bill,
01:59 - he will receive a notification 
about it when he signs in.
02:04 - Bill can view the feedback I left him and 
continue to update his code on the level,
02:09 - but he will not be able to write back to me in 
the tool. On most levels, teachers can leave a
02:14 - note for their students, but some levels also 
offer built-in mini rubrics.
02:20 - Some levels also offer example solutions in the blue teacher 
panel on the right hand side of the screen.
02:27 - You can also sometimes find suggestions 
for helping your students on the level,
02:31 - in the "Teachers Only" tab in the instructions 
area.
02:36 - Once I finished reviewing Bill's work, I can also use the teacher panel on the right to view another student's work.
02:46 - CS Discoveries and CS Principles courses 
offer multi-question assessments.
02:52 - These assessments are generally found at the 
end of units, and are made up of a series
02:56 - of multiple choice match and free response 
questions. Assessments are locked by default,
03:02 - to prevent students from seeing or 
working on the questions before it's
03:06 - time for the assessment to start. To unlock 
an assessment, click the lock settings button.
03:12 - Assessments will stay open for 24 hours, or you 
can manually lock them sooner.
03:18 - You can check your students results in the "Assessments 
& Surveys" tab of the teacher dashboard.
03:24 - If you're looking for more information, check 
out the resources section alongside the video.

Cleaned transcript:

Hi! My name is Amanda, and I'm a product manager at Code.org. This video will show you how to 1. See a summary of your student's progress on Code.org, 2. Review and leave feedback on student work, and 3. Administer one of Code.org assessments. Many of the features in this video are available only to verified teachers. To learn more about becoming a verified teacher, check out the support article in the resources. To view a summary of your students' progress on an assigned course, click the name of a classroom section on your homepage. The "Progress" tab shows which course activities the students in the section have worked on. Lessons in the course are represented by squares. If I click on a lesson I can see which specific levels in that lesson, students have worked on. As students complete more and more of the online activities in the course, their lessons and levels will turn green. Many levels in our elementary school courses are automatically evaluated for correctness, so a solid green level means students got the correct solution. In our middle and high school courses however, programming levels have many possible solutions, and will not be automatically validated. In these courses, we recommend choosing one or two activities per lesson to review. You can find recommended assessment opportunities by looking for a check mark icon on levels or in lesson plans. If I want to review Bill's work on this assessment opportunity, I can click the level next to his name. Now I can see his code, and even run it to see if it works. In CS Discoveries and CS Principles courses, teachers can leave feedback for their students, in the feedback tab. When I enter and save feedback for Bill, he will receive a notification about it when he signs in. Bill can view the feedback I left him and continue to update his code on the level, but he will not be able to write back to me in the tool. On most levels, teachers can leave a note for their students, but some levels also offer builtin mini rubrics. Some levels also offer example solutions in the blue teacher panel on the right hand side of the screen. You can also sometimes find suggestions for helping your students on the level, in the "Teachers Only" tab in the instructions area. Once I finished reviewing Bill's work, I can also use the teacher panel on the right to view another student's work. CS Discoveries and CS Principles courses offer multiquestion assessments. These assessments are generally found at the end of units, and are made up of a series of multiple choice match and free response questions. Assessments are locked by default, to prevent students from seeing or working on the questions before it's time for the assessment to start. To unlock an assessment, click the lock settings button. Assessments will stay open for 24 hours, or you can manually lock them sooner. You can check your students results in the "Assessments & Surveys" tab of the teacher dashboard. If you're looking for more information, check out the resources section alongside the video.
