With timestamps:

00:04 - Hi! My name is Kylie, and i'm a member of 
the product management team here at Code.org.  
00:09 - Today, I'll be showing you what it looks 
like when students sign in: 
00:12 - from when they first sign in, to when they start a coding 
activity. 
00:16 - What students see when they sign in,  depends on whether or not you have assigned the material yet. 
00:21 - If you have not yet assigned the material, they will be taken to the home page. 
00:25 - Here, students can find a course on their own, or they can start a project directly. 
00:30 - If you have already assigned material to your students,  they will be taken directly to the overview page.  
00:37 - On the overview page, students can find all of 
the chapters or lessons that they've already  
00:42 - begun working on in the course. If they've already 
begun course content, they can quickly continue  
00:47 - where they left off, by pressing the orange 
"Continue" button.
00:52 - For each lesson, they can also click the purple "Lesson Resources" button. This  button will take students to their documentation.  
00:59 - Note that this is called "Student Resources" 
when viewing the button on your teacher account.  
01:05 - Looking at the student's view of the overview page, we can see that for each lesson, there are multiple types of levels. 
01:11 - There are: levels that show information or videos, 
01:16 - levels that show multiple choice questions or free response questions,
01:22 - levels that show coding activities,  
01:26 - and some levels actually have students 
choose between a couple different activities.  
01:31 - Now, let's take a more in-depth look 
at the most common type of activity:  
01:34 - coding activities. Here, you can see that there 
is a large area for coding called the workspace.  
01:41 - You have a display area, and of course an 
area for instructions typically at the top.
01:47 - Depending on the coding activity, the experience 
will look a little different, because the material  
01:52 - will be geared towards learning different things. 
As we look at the different coding activities,
01:57 - notice how the layouts can change. Coding 
activities like this one, which are targeted  
02:02 - at younger students, allow them to drag and 
drop blocks of code. 
02:07 - As students learn more, they can choose to edit their code in text or they can continue to edit in blocks.
02:13 - When editing in blocks, you can hover over them, and see additional information and sometimes additional documentation.
02:22 - As students code, some levels will tell students if their work is right or wrong. 
02:27 - These validated levels are often found in Computer Science Fundamentals courses, and within our Hour of Code activities.
02:34 - In these levels, you'll often also find hints, or helpful tips for students.
02:38 - You can find these in the instructions pane; it's usually a little light bulb.
02:46 - Other levels are more open-ended, and 
require students to decide when they're  
02:49 - done with their work. In these levels, 
they press the orange "Finish" button.  
02:54 - They often will have help and tips in 
the instructions pane as a separate tab.  
03:00 - Last thing: remember that as a teacher, if you 
ever want to see what a student's experience  
03:04 - looks like, you can use the blue teacher 
panel on the right hand side of your screen.  
03:09 - Simply open it up and tap "Student". 
03:12 - Thanks for learning about the student experience today! If you have any questions,  don't hesitate to contact support@code.org!

Cleaned transcript:

Hi! My name is Kylie, and i'm a member of the product management team here at Code.org. Today, I'll be showing you what it looks like when students sign in from when they first sign in, to when they start a coding activity. What students see when they sign in, depends on whether or not you have assigned the material yet. If you have not yet assigned the material, they will be taken to the home page. Here, students can find a course on their own, or they can start a project directly. If you have already assigned material to your students, they will be taken directly to the overview page. On the overview page, students can find all of the chapters or lessons that they've already begun working on in the course. If they've already begun course content, they can quickly continue where they left off, by pressing the orange "Continue" button. For each lesson, they can also click the purple "Lesson Resources" button. This button will take students to their documentation. Note that this is called "Student Resources" when viewing the button on your teacher account. Looking at the student's view of the overview page, we can see that for each lesson, there are multiple types of levels. There are levels that show information or videos, levels that show multiple choice questions or free response questions, levels that show coding activities, and some levels actually have students choose between a couple different activities. Now, let's take a more indepth look at the most common type of activity coding activities. Here, you can see that there is a large area for coding called the workspace. You have a display area, and of course an area for instructions typically at the top. Depending on the coding activity, the experience will look a little different, because the material will be geared towards learning different things. As we look at the different coding activities, notice how the layouts can change. Coding activities like this one, which are targeted at younger students, allow them to drag and drop blocks of code. As students learn more, they can choose to edit their code in text or they can continue to edit in blocks. When editing in blocks, you can hover over them, and see additional information and sometimes additional documentation. As students code, some levels will tell students if their work is right or wrong. These validated levels are often found in Computer Science Fundamentals courses, and within our Hour of Code activities. In these levels, you'll often also find hints, or helpful tips for students. You can find these in the instructions pane; it's usually a little light bulb. Other levels are more openended, and require students to decide when they're done with their work. In these levels, they press the orange "Finish" button. They often will have help and tips in the instructions pane as a separate tab. Last thing remember that as a teacher, if you ever want to see what a student's experience looks like, you can use the blue teacher panel on the right hand side of your screen. Simply open it up and tap "Student". Thanks for learning about the student experience today! If you have any questions, don't hesitate to contact support@code.org!
