With timestamps:

00:00 - If you'd like to make your own game, it's
really easy. All you need are just a few basics
00:05 - of programming and you can start playing a
game that you created. Do you have a favorite
00:10 - video game?
00:12 - We're going to take one step toward creating
games just like that in PlayLab. Good games
00:18 - have a story and every story has actors. Actors
that do things like speak, move and interact
00:24 - with each other. Maybe even score points based
on the rules of the game. Today, we'll be
00:30 - learning how to do all these things one by
one with fun actors and then build a game
00:34 - from scratch that can be shared and played
on a phone. Your screen is split into three
00:40 - main parts. On the left is the gamespace where
your program will run. The instructions for
00:46 - each level are written below. This middle
area is the tool box and each of these blocks
00:51 - is a piece of code. The white space on the
right is called the work space and this is
00:57 - where we'll build our program. To start off,
you'll need to link your blocks to the orange
01:03 - when run block. You can link multiple blocks
together by dragging them out until you see
01:07 - the yellow line and then they'll snap together.
In this first puzzle, we'll make the actors
01:13 - say something by linking the say block to
the when run block and typing in your message.
01:19 - Once you have your blocks in place, hit the
run button to see what you programmed. Get
01:25 - started and by the end you'll be able to create
your own game with all kinds of players that
01:30 - can interact, score points, throw things,
and vanish each other. It's all up to you!

Cleaned transcript:

If you'd like to make your own game, it's really easy. All you need are just a few basics of programming and you can start playing a game that you created. Do you have a favorite video game? We're going to take one step toward creating games just like that in PlayLab. Good games have a story and every story has actors. Actors that do things like speak, move and interact with each other. Maybe even score points based on the rules of the game. Today, we'll be learning how to do all these things one by one with fun actors and then build a game from scratch that can be shared and played on a phone. Your screen is split into three main parts. On the left is the gamespace where your program will run. The instructions for each level are written below. This middle area is the tool box and each of these blocks is a piece of code. The white space on the right is called the work space and this is where we'll build our program. To start off, you'll need to link your blocks to the orange when run block. You can link multiple blocks together by dragging them out until you see the yellow line and then they'll snap together. In this first puzzle, we'll make the actors say something by linking the say block to the when run block and typing in your message. Once you have your blocks in place, hit the run button to see what you programmed. Get started and by the end you'll be able to create your own game with all kinds of players that can interact, score points, throw things, and vanish each other. It's all up to you!
