With timestamps:

00:00 - Okay, now, you're gonna press run. Last year,
over 100 organizations joined forces to make
00:06 - Hour of Code the largest education event in
history. The Hour of Code! This is so cool!
00:14 - [Repeats Hour of Code in other languages]
Your teacher says you guys are into it. We
00:22 - are. It's very awesome. Code.org has partnered
with 30 public school districts across the
00:33 - country, including New York, Chicago, and
Denver to provide lessons in teacher training
00:37 - and writing. The largest education events
in history. Organizers have set what they
00:42 - call an ambitious goal of reaching 10 million
students this week. Almost 15 million signed
00:48 - up. This week, I'm proud to join the students,
teachers, businesses, and non-profit organizations
00:53 - taking new steps to support computer science
in America's schools. I ran an Hour of Code.
01:01 - It's easy to do. I got it! They've been so
excited about it. Oh my gosh, it's working.
01:07 - I did it! They don't even have to be a computer
science engineer. Maybe they want to do something
01:13 - else, but in our world this is gonna be the
basis for everything that we do. Obama: "Move.
01:20 - Semicolon." I'm so excited! I'm actually gonna
code. When you're building a program, you
01:26 - have to think outside of the box. If you can
change technology, you can change the world.
01:31 - I challenge girls in every single country
to learn one hour of code. Yes! Every district
01:36 - should do it. Every district can do it. Please
help us get the Hour of Code to every school,
01:42 - and every classroom, and every child. And
my school is doing it! Calling all teachers
01:45 - worldwide. Help us reach 200 million students
this December.

Cleaned transcript:

Okay, now, you're gonna press run. Last year, over 100 organizations joined forces to make Hour of Code the largest education event in history. The Hour of Code! This is so cool! [Repeats Hour of Code in other languages] Your teacher says you guys are into it. We are. It's very awesome. Code.org has partnered with 30 public school districts across the country, including New York, Chicago, and Denver to provide lessons in teacher training and writing. The largest education events in history. Organizers have set what they call an ambitious goal of reaching 10 million students this week. Almost 15 million signed up. This week, I'm proud to join the students, teachers, businesses, and nonprofit organizations taking new steps to support computer science in America's schools. I ran an Hour of Code. It's easy to do. I got it! They've been so excited about it. Oh my gosh, it's working. I did it! They don't even have to be a computer science engineer. Maybe they want to do something else, but in our world this is gonna be the basis for everything that we do. Obama "Move. Semicolon." I'm so excited! I'm actually gonna code. When you're building a program, you have to think outside of the box. If you can change technology, you can change the world. I challenge girls in every single country to learn one hour of code. Yes! Every district should do it. Every district can do it. Please help us get the Hour of Code to every school, and every classroom, and every child. And my school is doing it! Calling all teachers worldwide. Help us reach 200 million students this December.
