With timestamps:

00:00 - One thing that computers are really good
at is repeating commands.
00:03 - As a person, you'd get really bored if you
had to do the same thing lots of times in a row.
00:08 - But a computer can do the same thing
millions or even billions of times,
00:12 - and not get bored and be able to carry
that out really well.
00:15 - So for example if I wanted to wish
00:17 - everyone on Facebook a happy birthday by
sending them an email,
00:20 - it might take me more than a century to
actually write out all of those emails to everyone.
00:25 - But with just a few lines of code, I can have
a system
00:28 - send an email to everyone on Facebook
wishing them a happy birthday.
00:32 - So that's what loops are, and why they're
valuable,
00:34 - and something that computers can do very well.
00:37 - In this example your goal is going to be
to move the bird
00:40 - to get the pig. Now we're gonna be able to use the "repeat" block
00:44 - in order to be able to do this very
easily. You can either do this by
00:49 - giving the computer a "move forward"
command
00:52 - five times in order to advance the bird
one step each time to the pig.
00:57 - Or you can just tell the computer to
"move forward" once,
01:00 - and then tell it to "repeat" that 5
times, and it will do the same thing.
01:04 - So in order to do this you drag your
"move forward" command,
01:08 - and then you put it inside the
"repeat" block.
01:11 - And you can click on it and tell it how
many times you want to repeat the block
01:16 - to tell it how many steps you want it to
take forward. Now one more thing is
01:19 - you can put as many commands as you
want inside the "repeat" block.
01:23 - So in this example you're telling it to
move forward and turn left,
01:26 - which it will do five times. Alright good
job and have fun :-)

Cleaned transcript:

One thing that computers are really good at is repeating commands. As a person, you'd get really bored if you had to do the same thing lots of times in a row. But a computer can do the same thing millions or even billions of times, and not get bored and be able to carry that out really well. So for example if I wanted to wish everyone on Facebook a happy birthday by sending them an email, it might take me more than a century to actually write out all of those emails to everyone. But with just a few lines of code, I can have a system send an email to everyone on Facebook wishing them a happy birthday. So that's what loops are, and why they're valuable, and something that computers can do very well. In this example your goal is going to be to move the bird to get the pig. Now we're gonna be able to use the "repeat" block in order to be able to do this very easily. You can either do this by giving the computer a "move forward" command five times in order to advance the bird one step each time to the pig. Or you can just tell the computer to "move forward" once, and then tell it to "repeat" that 5 times, and it will do the same thing. So in order to do this you drag your "move forward" command, and then you put it inside the "repeat" block. And you can click on it and tell it how many times you want to repeat the block to tell it how many steps you want it to take forward. Now one more thing is you can put as many commands as you want inside the "repeat" block. So in this example you're telling it to move forward and turn left, which it will do five times. Alright good job and have fun )
