With timestamps:

00:00 - We are working on, I think, the coolest
product ever!
00:04 - We make a version of Minecraft that people use in classrooms.
00:11 - Hi, my name is Haro, and I'm a tech
lead for a Minecraft Education edition.
00:15 - My name is Cole, and I'm a Minecraft
designer.
00:19 - I make mobs, I make blocks, I make different tools for content creators.
00:25 - I make sure kids can play Minecraft at school.
00:28 - - By yourself?
- I couldn't do all this stuff alone.
00:31 - Everything that we create, we always
create as a team.
00:35 - If you wanna make something cool, you really can't do it by yourself.
00:38 - You're gonna have to work with other
people, so it's an important skill to learn now.
00:47 - You're gonna want to make a plan with your team, that explains all of your team goals,
00:51 - and how you're gonna work together to make that happen.
00:54 - You'll want to write that plan down, so you can take a look at it later.
00:59 - Give everyone a special way to contribute to the team.
01:03 - If you notice someone does not have anything to do,
01:07 - or is not sharing as many
ideas, invite them in,
01:10 - and make sure you're listening to what they have to say.
01:14 - This one's important: celebrate the successes of your team and teammates.
01:19 - Any time your teammate does something awesome, make sure to tell them.
01:23 - High five!
01:30 - Having all the right ingredients is
important for a team. People are the ingredients here.
01:35 - A good team is one that has fun. Everything that you work on should be fun.
01:42 - There should be energy, and passion, and also just open communication.
01:47 - You can ask everyone, if there's something they'd like to work on, or what they're really good at.
01:53 - When you figure out everybody's strengths, that can help you divide the project into parts.
02:01 - We all listen eagerly and earnestly to the ideas that everyone has,
02:06 - And we understand that everyone brings something different to the table.
02:11 - Every idea contributes to the final product.
02:15 - Your idea is really important, so share your idea, be confident!

Cleaned transcript:

We are working on, I think, the coolest product ever! We make a version of Minecraft that people use in classrooms. Hi, my name is Haro, and I'm a tech lead for a Minecraft Education edition. My name is Cole, and I'm a Minecraft designer. I make mobs, I make blocks, I make different tools for content creators. I make sure kids can play Minecraft at school. By yourself? I couldn't do all this stuff alone. Everything that we create, we always create as a team. If you wanna make something cool, you really can't do it by yourself. You're gonna have to work with other people, so it's an important skill to learn now. You're gonna want to make a plan with your team, that explains all of your team goals, and how you're gonna work together to make that happen. You'll want to write that plan down, so you can take a look at it later. Give everyone a special way to contribute to the team. If you notice someone does not have anything to do, or is not sharing as many ideas, invite them in, and make sure you're listening to what they have to say. This one's important celebrate the successes of your team and teammates. Any time your teammate does something awesome, make sure to tell them. High five! Having all the right ingredients is important for a team. People are the ingredients here. A good team is one that has fun. Everything that you work on should be fun. There should be energy, and passion, and also just open communication. You can ask everyone, if there's something they'd like to work on, or what they're really good at. When you figure out everybody's strengths, that can help you divide the project into parts. We all listen eagerly and earnestly to the ideas that everyone has, And we understand that everyone brings something different to the table. Every idea contributes to the final product. Your idea is really important, so share your idea, be confident!
