With timestamps:

00:05 - Now that you've edited function blocks, it's
time to create a new function block from scratch.
00:10 - It's really simple. You'll see the toolbox
has a category called functions. If you click
00:15 - on this, you'll see an orange button called
create a function. Clicking on this brings
00:20 - up the function editor that you've already
used to edit existing function blocks. Just
00:25 - like before, you started by naming your function,
writing down a description for what the function
00:30 - is supposed to do. For instance, it's supposed
to draw a square or draw a triangle and then
00:36 - drag blocks from the toolbox into the white
work space below. Remember to drag these blocks
00:41 - inside the green wrapping block for the function.
Once you're done, click on save and exit.
00:47 - This will take you back to the main puzzle
work space. The new function you created will
00:51 - show up as a green block in the function category
in your toolbox. Drag and drop this into the
00:56 - main work space and use it like any other
block to solve the puzzle.

Cleaned transcript:

Now that you've edited function blocks, it's time to create a new function block from scratch. It's really simple. You'll see the toolbox has a category called functions. If you click on this, you'll see an orange button called create a function. Clicking on this brings up the function editor that you've already used to edit existing function blocks. Just like before, you started by naming your function, writing down a description for what the function is supposed to do. For instance, it's supposed to draw a square or draw a triangle and then drag blocks from the toolbox into the white work space below. Remember to drag these blocks inside the green wrapping block for the function. Once you're done, click on save and exit. This will take you back to the main puzzle work space. The new function you created will show up as a green block in the function category in your toolbox. Drag and drop this into the main work space and use it like any other block to solve the puzzle.
