With timestamps:

00:00 - Everywhere you look,
computers are changing the world.
00:03 - Whether they're on our desktops,
in our homes, our pockets,
00:07 - or just about anywhere else.
00:10 - But while most of us use
this revolutionary technology daily,
00:14 - we don't often ask:
"How do computers work?"
00:18 - In this series, you're going to learn
how computers really work,
00:21 - starting with what makes a computer
a computer.
00:25 - Then, you'll look at how information
is represented inside the computer
00:29 - using tiny electrical signals going
on and off at mind-boggling speeds.
00:35 - After that, you'll learn how computers
use circuits to do everything
00:39 - from simple math
to simulating entire virtual worlds.
00:44 - Next, you'll zoom out and look
`at the different parts of a computer
00:48 - that actually input, output,
and store all that information.
00:53 - Finally, you'll take a look
at what code actually is
00:56 - and how software controls hardware.
01:00 - So whether you're just curious
about the devices you use every day
01:03 - or you want to design
the innovations of the future,
01:07 - the first step is learning
how computers work.

Cleaned transcript:

Everywhere you look, computers are changing the world. Whether they're on our desktops, in our homes, our pockets, or just about anywhere else. But while most of us use this revolutionary technology daily, we don't often ask "How do computers work?" In this series, you're going to learn how computers really work, starting with what makes a computer a computer. Then, you'll look at how information is represented inside the computer using tiny electrical signals going on and off at mindboggling speeds. After that, you'll learn how computers use circuits to do everything from simple math to simulating entire virtual worlds. Next, you'll zoom out and look `at the different parts of a computer that actually input, output, and store all that information. Finally, you'll take a look at what code actually is and how software controls hardware. So whether you're just curious about the devices you use every day or you want to design the innovations of the future, the first step is learning how computers work.
