With timestamps:

00:00 - With so many millions of kids at home,
providing a creative outlet for learning
00:04 - is more important than ever.
00:06 - It's a perfect opportunity to learn computer science and how to code.
00:10 - Computer science is creative, engaging, and students love it.
00:13 - Here are some easy ways to get
students started learning computer science.
00:17 - First check out Code Break!
00:20 - Join me and my team at Code.org, along with some very special guests
00:24 - in a weekly interactive session. Together, we're hoping to make the
00:28 - largest live
interactive classroom in history.
00:33 - Or, you can try the Hour of Code! Code your own dance party at home,
00:36 - Learn how to clean the oceans with artificial intelligence,
00:39 - Explore worlds of Minecraft,
00:42 - Build your own Flappy Bird, or make Star Wars game.
00:46 - On Code.org, you can find videos that teach how the internet works and how computers work.
00:51 - These short videos break down concepts in a way that's accessible for anybody to learn.
00:57 - Plus, we have lots of inspirational videos from diverse role models from around the world,
01:02 - to encourage students who may not typically consider themselves as computer scientists.
01:07 - You can try one of our self-directed courses for every age.
01:10 - The Express course shows the basics of computer science and Internet safety.
01:15 - At the end of the course, kids create their very own game or story they can share.
01:19 - You can put those great ideas into action with App Lab.
01:23 - It's a fun, easy way to make your own unique apps. What will you create?
01:28 - Pre-readers can play along in a course specially designed for them.
01:32 - If you don't have a computer, that's no problem!
01:35 - There are terrific options that can be
used on any smartphone
01:39 - like LightBot, CodeSpark, or Grasshopper.
01:42 - Check out Code.org, there's something for everyone!
01:47 - Because anyone can learn. Give it a shot!

Cleaned transcript:

With so many millions of kids at home, providing a creative outlet for learning is more important than ever. It's a perfect opportunity to learn computer science and how to code. Computer science is creative, engaging, and students love it. Here are some easy ways to get students started learning computer science. First check out Code Break! Join me and my team at Code.org, along with some very special guests in a weekly interactive session. Together, we're hoping to make the largest live interactive classroom in history. Or, you can try the Hour of Code! Code your own dance party at home, Learn how to clean the oceans with artificial intelligence, Explore worlds of Minecraft, Build your own Flappy Bird, or make Star Wars game. On Code.org, you can find videos that teach how the internet works and how computers work. These short videos break down concepts in a way that's accessible for anybody to learn. Plus, we have lots of inspirational videos from diverse role models from around the world, to encourage students who may not typically consider themselves as computer scientists. You can try one of our selfdirected courses for every age. The Express course shows the basics of computer science and Internet safety. At the end of the course, kids create their very own game or story they can share. You can put those great ideas into action with App Lab. It's a fun, easy way to make your own unique apps. What will you create? Prereaders can play along in a course specially designed for them. If you don't have a computer, that's no problem! There are terrific options that can be used on any smartphone like LightBot, CodeSpark, or Grasshopper. Check out Code.org, there's something for everyone! Because anyone can learn. Give it a shot!
