With timestamps:

00:04 - One that computers are really good at is repeating
commands. As a person, you'd get really bored
00:10 - if you had to do the same thing lots 
of times in a row. But a computer can do the
00:14 - same thing millions or even billions of times
and not get bored and be able to carry that
00:19 - out really well. So for example, if I wanted
to wish everyone on Facebook a happy birthday
00:24 - by sending them an email, it might take me
more than century to actually write out all
00:28 - those emails to everyone. But with just a
few lines of code, I can have a system send
00:33 - an email to everyone on Facebook wishing them
a happy birthday. So that's what loops are
00:38 - and why they are valuable and something that
computers can do very well.
00:41 - In this example, your goal is going to be to move the bird to get the pig. Now, we're going to be able
00:47 - to use the repeat block in order to be able
to do this very easily. You can either do
00:52 - this by giving the computer a move forward
command five times in order to advance the
00:59 - bird one step each time to the pig or you
can just tell the computer to move forward
01:04 - once, and then tell it to repeat that five
times and it'll do the same thing. So in order
01:09 - to do this, you drag your move forward command
and then you put it inside the repeat block.
01:16 - And you can click on it and tell it how many
times you want to repeat the block to tell it how
01:21 - many steps you want it to take forward. Now
one more thing is you can put as many commands
01:26 - as you want inside the repeat block. So in
this example, you're telling it to move forward
01:30 - and turn left, which it'll do five times.
All right, good job and have fun!
01:36 - Subtitles by the Amara.org community

Cleaned transcript:

One that computers are really good at is repeating commands. As a person, you'd get really bored if you had to do the same thing lots of times in a row. But a computer can do the same thing millions or even billions of times and not get bored and be able to carry that out really well. So for example, if I wanted to wish everyone on Facebook a happy birthday by sending them an email, it might take me more than century to actually write out all those emails to everyone. But with just a few lines of code, I can have a system send an email to everyone on Facebook wishing them a happy birthday. So that's what loops are and why they are valuable and something that computers can do very well. In this example, your goal is going to be to move the bird to get the pig. Now, we're going to be able to use the repeat block in order to be able to do this very easily. You can either do this by giving the computer a move forward command five times in order to advance the bird one step each time to the pig or you can just tell the computer to move forward once, and then tell it to repeat that five times and it'll do the same thing. So in order to do this, you drag your move forward command and then you put it inside the repeat block. And you can click on it and tell it how many times you want to repeat the block to tell it how many steps you want it to take forward. Now one more thing is you can put as many commands as you want inside the repeat block. So in this example, you're telling it to move forward and turn left, which it'll do five times. All right, good job and have fun! Subtitles by the Amara.org community
