With timestamps:

00:00 - One thing that computers are really good at
is repeating commands.
00:04 - As a person, you'd get really bored if you
had to do the same thing lots of times in
00:08 - a row.
00:09 - But a computer can do the same thing millions
or even billions of times and not get bored,
00:14 - and be able to carry that out really well.
00:15 - For example, if I wanted to wish everyone
on Facebook a Happy Birthday by sending them
00:20 - an email, it might take me more than a century
to actually write out all of those emails
00:24 - to everyone.
00:25 - But with just a few lines of code I can have
a system send an email to everyone on Facebook
00:30 - wishing them a Happy Birthday.
00:32 - So that's what loops are and why they're valuable,
and something that computers can do very well.
00:37 - To get the bird to the pig in this level...
rather than drag three North blocks on to
00:42 - the workspace, you will use the "repeat" block.
00:45 - Drag the "repeat" block on to the workspace
and enter the number 3.
00:50 - Then drag the "move North" block into the
"repeat" block and hit "Run" to see if you
00:55 - got it right.
00:58 - Congratulations, you got it!

Cleaned transcript:

One thing that computers are really good at is repeating commands. As a person, you'd get really bored if you had to do the same thing lots of times in a row. But a computer can do the same thing millions or even billions of times and not get bored, and be able to carry that out really well. For example, if I wanted to wish everyone on Facebook a Happy Birthday by sending them an email, it might take me more than a century to actually write out all of those emails to everyone. But with just a few lines of code I can have a system send an email to everyone on Facebook wishing them a Happy Birthday. So that's what loops are and why they're valuable, and something that computers can do very well. To get the bird to the pig in this level... rather than drag three North blocks on to the workspace, you will use the "repeat" block. Drag the "repeat" block on to the workspace and enter the number 3. Then drag the "move North" block into the "repeat" block and hit "Run" to see if you got it right. Congratulations, you got it!
