With timestamps:

00:00 - I'm Lydia Winters, Mojang's brand director
and we made a little game called Minecraft.
00:07 - My favorite thing to do in Minecraft is explore.
I love adventuring in caves and seeing what
00:12 - I can find. As someone who isn't a programmer,
I'm really excited to go through the Minecraft
00:17 - lessons and actually learn some coding myself.
00:25 - The last level needed lots of moveForward(); blocks. It would be easier if we could just tell the computer to perform the move forward
00:29 - command four or five times. Luckily for us,
computers are really good at repeating commands
00:36 - with repeat loops. When building Minecraft,
we use repeat loops to place all the initial
00:42 - materials for creating a new world. That's
thousands and thousands of blocks. We also
00:48 - use loops in little ways, for example to make
Alex's feet move back and forth as she walks.
00:55 - Repeat loops are a powerful part of programming.
01:01 - Night is coming so in the next couple of levels,we're going to build a house to stay safe.
We're going to use the repeat block to do
01:06 - this very easily. To build a wall of our house,
we can either tell Alex to move forward and
01:12 - place planks four times or we can tell her
to move forward and place one plank, then
01:18 - take this command and use the repeat block
to have her perform the action multiple times.
01:23 - Now we'll click on the repeat block and tell
her how many times we want her to perform
01:27 - this action. Now let's build our house before
night falls! Have fun.

Cleaned transcript:

I'm Lydia Winters, Mojang's brand director and we made a little game called Minecraft. My favorite thing to do in Minecraft is explore. I love adventuring in caves and seeing what I can find. As someone who isn't a programmer, I'm really excited to go through the Minecraft lessons and actually learn some coding myself. The last level needed lots of moveForward(); blocks. It would be easier if we could just tell the computer to perform the move forward command four or five times. Luckily for us, computers are really good at repeating commands with repeat loops. When building Minecraft, we use repeat loops to place all the initial materials for creating a new world. That's thousands and thousands of blocks. We also use loops in little ways, for example to make Alex's feet move back and forth as she walks. Repeat loops are a powerful part of programming. Night is coming so in the next couple of levels,we're going to build a house to stay safe. We're going to use the repeat block to do this very easily. To build a wall of our house, we can either tell Alex to move forward and place planks four times or we can tell her to move forward and place one plank, then take this command and use the repeat block to have her perform the action multiple times. Now we'll click on the repeat block and tell her how many times we want her to perform this action. Now let's build our house before night falls! Have fun.
