With timestamps:

00:05 - Today we're going to learn about pair programming.
In pair programming, you work as a team. Why
00:11 - should two people use one computer? Because
two heads are better than one. We work together
00:17 - in an interesting kind of way. Because we're
interesting people. We are interesting people.
00:24 - In pair programming, you and your
partner are going to sit down together at
00:28 - one computer and you're both going to work
on the same project. Right now we're working
00:33 - on Code Monsters!
00:38 - In pair programming, one
person is the driver and the other person
00:42 - is the navigator, just like driving a car.
00:47 - Your choice, driver or navigator? Driver.
00:51 - The driver sits at the computer and is the one using
they keyboard, mouse, or touch screen and
00:56 - controls the main actions of the computer.
I'm setting the arrows so that they make the
01:01 - character move in the direction that he's
trying to move. And the other person is the
01:07 - navigator. The navigator helps the driver
by answering the driver's questions and pointing
01:11 - out potential problems or mistakes.
01:14 - Go left. Instead of righty tighty, go right.
01:20 - Communication
is key to successful pair programming. Don't
01:24 - DON'T: insult your partner. DO: be respectful. DON'T
be a bossy navigator, because nobody likes a backseat driver.
01:33 - Why can't you do this? Wait, hey! Stop that, give it back. (DON'T grab the driver's mouse/keyboard)
01:39 - Communication is key to successful
pair programming. You and your partner
01:44 - should always be talking.
(DO talk to one another about the work)
01:48 - The driver can explain what s/he is doing.
(DO explain what you are doing)
01:54 - The navigator can help suggest what to do next.
(DO think ahead and make suggestions)
02:00 - The navigator should be thinking about
the big picture and the driver focuses on
02:05 - the details. Both roles are important
02:09 - Want to switch? Okay. I'm the driver now. (DO switch roles often)
02:12 - Be sure to switch roles often.
02:15 - Wait a second, why isn't this working?
02:17 - You need to attach it up there,
look there's a hole.
02:22 - Did you see how my partner helped me to figure out the puzzle with fewer tries?
02:26 - She caught my mistakes. Pair programming
02:29 - is all about working together as a team.
02:37 - DO: Be respectful, talk to one another about the work, explain what you are doing
02:40 - DO: think ahead, make suggestions, switch roles often.
02:43 - DON'T: be a bossy navigator or grab the driver's
mouse/keyboard.

Cleaned transcript:

Today we're going to learn about pair programming. In pair programming, you work as a team. Why should two people use one computer? Because two heads are better than one. We work together in an interesting kind of way. Because we're interesting people. We are interesting people. In pair programming, you and your partner are going to sit down together at one computer and you're both going to work on the same project. Right now we're working on Code Monsters! In pair programming, one person is the driver and the other person is the navigator, just like driving a car. Your choice, driver or navigator? Driver. The driver sits at the computer and is the one using they keyboard, mouse, or touch screen and controls the main actions of the computer. I'm setting the arrows so that they make the character move in the direction that he's trying to move. And the other person is the navigator. The navigator helps the driver by answering the driver's questions and pointing out potential problems or mistakes. Go left. Instead of righty tighty, go right. Communication is key to successful pair programming. Don't DON'T insult your partner. DO be respectful. DON'T be a bossy navigator, because nobody likes a backseat driver. Why can't you do this? Wait, hey! Stop that, give it back. (DON'T grab the driver's mouse/keyboard) Communication is key to successful pair programming. You and your partner should always be talking. (DO talk to one another about the work) The driver can explain what s/he is doing. (DO explain what you are doing) The navigator can help suggest what to do next. (DO think ahead and make suggestions) The navigator should be thinking about the big picture and the driver focuses on the details. Both roles are important Want to switch? Okay. I'm the driver now. (DO switch roles often) Be sure to switch roles often. Wait a second, why isn't this working? You need to attach it up there, look there's a hole. Did you see how my partner helped me to figure out the puzzle with fewer tries? She caught my mistakes. Pair programming is all about working together as a team. DO Be respectful, talk to one another about the work, explain what you are doing DO think ahead, make suggestions, switch roles often. DON'T be a bossy navigator or grab the driver's mouse/keyboard.
