With timestamps:

00:01 - ﻿Closed Caption: Pair Programming
[Music]  
00:03 - Great things come in pairs! Peanut butter and 
jelly. Salt and pepper. Batman and Robin. 
 
00:11 - Pizza and pepperoni. 
I disagree with you there. I’d  
00:16 - say pizza and spinach. 
Eww! [Music] 
 
00:19 - Pair programming is when two people work 
together at the same computer to write code. 
 
00:23 - There are two roles: one person is the 
driver, and one person is the navigator. 
 
00:28 - The driver is the person using the 
computer, actually typing the code. 
 
00:32 - The navigator is keeping track of the 
big picture and helping the driver  
00:35 - decide what code to write next.
Your driver is your Jedi and  
00:41 - your navigator is your Yoda. 
Oh, you already wrote the test?
 
00:45 - No, I kind of faked it.
Okay, I'll make a note that we  
00:47 - should come back to that. 
Okay.
 
00:49 - Sometimes when I’m stuck and 
I’m programming on my own,  
00:51 - I’ll ask somebody else to be my pair programmer 
because they may see a solution that I missed.
 
00:56 - Like this one? 
mmm, okay. 
 
00:59 - It’s important to switch roles often. 
So that we can practice both roles  
01:03 - and learn from one another.
You know, you want to switch?
 
01:07 - Yeah, thank you.
I do do mistakes while  
01:11 - coding. Of course it’s normal. 
This button isn’t working.
 
01:14 - It’s a bug. 
I think pair programming makes it  
01:18 - a lot easier to ask for help. You figure 
out that making mistakes is okay. And you  
01:24 - learn how to forgive yourself and also other 
people when you’re working with a partner,  
01:28 - which makes you become more sociable and easier 
to talk to, which is a useful skill in life. 
 
01:36 - So when you get the opportunity to get 
other people’s point of view on things,  
01:40 - it’s very important to take that advice.
Because you realize you were wrong,  
01:44 - you accept the feedback, and then 
you become better because of it.
 
01:48 - Hey it works!
You’re looking at the human part and the code  
01:51 - part, you’re not just coding without any emotions. 
You’re coding as a person, with another person. 
 
01:59 - That’s what I was thinking! [Laughing] 
And as people we need to have good  
02:03 - conversations while we’re coding so 
that we don’t become like robots. 
 
02:08 - Pair programming is working together, to 
write code, as a team, and as friends. [Music]

Cleaned transcript:

﻿Closed Caption Pair Programming Great things come in pairs! Peanut butter and jelly. Salt and pepper. Batman and Robin. Pizza and pepperoni. I disagree with you there. I’d say pizza and spinach. Eww! Pair programming is when two people work together at the same computer to write code. There are two roles one person is the driver, and one person is the navigator. The driver is the person using the computer, actually typing the code. The navigator is keeping track of the big picture and helping the driver decide what code to write next. Your driver is your Jedi and your navigator is your Yoda. Oh, you already wrote the test? No, I kind of faked it. Okay, I'll make a note that we should come back to that. Okay. Sometimes when I’m stuck and I’m programming on my own, I’ll ask somebody else to be my pair programmer because they may see a solution that I missed. Like this one? mmm, okay. It’s important to switch roles often. So that we can practice both roles and learn from one another. You know, you want to switch? Yeah, thank you. I do do mistakes while coding. Of course it’s normal. This button isn’t working. It’s a bug. I think pair programming makes it a lot easier to ask for help. You figure out that making mistakes is okay. And you learn how to forgive yourself and also other people when you’re working with a partner, which makes you become more sociable and easier to talk to, which is a useful skill in life. So when you get the opportunity to get other people’s point of view on things, it’s very important to take that advice. Because you realize you were wrong, you accept the feedback, and then you become better because of it. Hey it works! You’re looking at the human part and the code part, you’re not just coding without any emotions. You’re coding as a person, with another person. That’s what I was thinking! [Laughing] And as people we need to have good conversations while we’re coding so that we don’t become like robots. Pair programming is working together, to write code, as a team, and as friends.
