With timestamps:

00:02 - So what grade are you in? Second. Tenth grade.
First grade. I was in 8th grade when I learned
00:10 - to program. I got my first computer when I
was in 6th grade. What gets me excited is
00:16 - being able to fix people's problems. You can
express yourself, you can build things from
00:21 - an idea. Computer science is the basis for
a lot of the things that college students
00:26 - and professionals will do for the next 20
or 30 years. I like programming because I
00:31 - like helping people. I get the opportunity
to build something that's going to to make
00:36 - people's lives easier. I think it's the closest
thing we have to a superpower. Getting started
00:41 - is the most important part. I'm a beginner
myself, and I want you to learn with me.
00:46 - Do you have a favorite video game that you've
always wanted to make? Well we're going to
00:50 - get started creating games just by using Play
Lab. Good games have a story, and every story
00:57 - has actors. Actors that do things like speak,
move, interact with each other, maybe even
01:02 - score points based on the rules of that game.
Today, we'll be learning how to do all of
01:07 - these things with fun actors like witches,
zombies, aliens, and animals--and then build
01:13 - a game from scratch that can be shared and
played on a phone.
01:18 - Your screen is split into 3 main parts. On
the left is the game space where your program
01:22 - will run. The instructions for each level
are written below. The middle area is the
01:28 - toolbox, and each of these blocks is a piece
of code. The white space on the right is called
01:33 - the workspace and this is where we'll build
our program.
01:38 - To start off, you'll need to link your blocks
to the orange "when run" block. You can link
01:43 - multiple blocks together by dragging them
out until you see the yellow line, and then
01:48 - they'll snap together.
01:50 - In this first puzzle, our actor is a penguin
and we'll be making it say "Hello!" by dragging
01:56 - the "say" block out, linking it to the "when
run" block, and typing in "Hello." We can
02:02 - also make the penguin move by using the "move
right" and "move left" blocks. Once you have
02:06 - your blocks in place, hit the "run button"
to see what you've programmed. Get started
02:11 - and by the end, you'll be able to create your
own game with all kinds of players that can
02:16 - interact, turn happy or sad, score points,
or throw fireballs, or even vanish each other.
02:23 - It's all up to you and the game you want to
make.

Cleaned transcript:

So what grade are you in? Second. Tenth grade. First grade. I was in 8th grade when I learned to program. I got my first computer when I was in 6th grade. What gets me excited is being able to fix people's problems. You can express yourself, you can build things from an idea. Computer science is the basis for a lot of the things that college students and professionals will do for the next 20 or 30 years. I like programming because I like helping people. I get the opportunity to build something that's going to to make people's lives easier. I think it's the closest thing we have to a superpower. Getting started is the most important part. I'm a beginner myself, and I want you to learn with me. Do you have a favorite video game that you've always wanted to make? Well we're going to get started creating games just by using Play Lab. Good games have a story, and every story has actors. Actors that do things like speak, move, interact with each other, maybe even score points based on the rules of that game. Today, we'll be learning how to do all of these things with fun actors like witches, zombies, aliens, and animalsand then build a game from scratch that can be shared and played on a phone. Your screen is split into 3 main parts. On the left is the game space where your program will run. The instructions for each level are written below. The middle area is the toolbox, and each of these blocks is a piece of code. The white space on the right is called the workspace and this is where we'll build our program. To start off, you'll need to link your blocks to the orange "when run" block. You can link multiple blocks together by dragging them out until you see the yellow line, and then they'll snap together. In this first puzzle, our actor is a penguin and we'll be making it say "Hello!" by dragging the "say" block out, linking it to the "when run" block, and typing in "Hello." We can also make the penguin move by using the "move right" and "move left" blocks. Once you have your blocks in place, hit the "run button" to see what you've programmed. Get started and by the end, you'll be able to create your own game with all kinds of players that can interact, turn happy or sad, score points, or throw fireballs, or even vanish each other. It's all up to you and the game you want to make.
