With timestamps:

00:00 - Well, hello, my name is Charita Carter. I'm
a senior creative producer here at Walt Disney
00:05 - Imagineering. I'm responsible for leading
teams that actually produce the attractions
00:09 - that our guests get to experience. We are
always looking for ways that we can improve
00:16 - and make a better experience for our guests
and technology is at the heart of that.
00:21 - Congratulations, you did it! You programmed
BB-8. Now I think we're ready for something
00:27 - harder. Let's go for it. Now that you've learned
the basics of programming, we're going to
00:33 - back in time to build your own game, starring
R2-D2 and C3PO. To make a game, we need to
00:40 - learn about something that game programmers
use every day: they're called events.
00:45 - Events tell your program to listen or wait
for when something happens and then when it
00:51 - does, it performs an action. Some examples
of events are listening for a mouse click,
00:56 - an arrow button or a tap on the screen. Here
we're going to make R2-D2 move up to deliver
01:02 - a message to a rebel pilot and then move down
to the other rebel pilot.
01:07 - We'll use events to make him move. When the
player uses the up/down arrow keys, or the
01:12 - up/down buttons. We use the when up event
block and attach the go up block to it. When
01:19 - the player presses the up arrow key, the code
attached to the when up block is run. And
01:25 - we'll do the same thing to make R2-D2 move
down.
01:28 - Now instead of writing all the code to control
our droid in advance, we can let R2-D2 react
01:34 - to button press events that move him around
the screen. Step by step, your game is getting
01:40 - more interactive.

Cleaned transcript:

Well, hello, my name is Charita Carter. I'm a senior creative producer here at Walt Disney Imagineering. I'm responsible for leading teams that actually produce the attractions that our guests get to experience. We are always looking for ways that we can improve and make a better experience for our guests and technology is at the heart of that. Congratulations, you did it! You programmed BB8. Now I think we're ready for something harder. Let's go for it. Now that you've learned the basics of programming, we're going to back in time to build your own game, starring R2D2 and C3PO. To make a game, we need to learn about something that game programmers use every day they're called events. Events tell your program to listen or wait for when something happens and then when it does, it performs an action. Some examples of events are listening for a mouse click, an arrow button or a tap on the screen. Here we're going to make R2D2 move up to deliver a message to a rebel pilot and then move down to the other rebel pilot. We'll use events to make him move. When the player uses the up/down arrow keys, or the up/down buttons. We use the when up event block and attach the go up block to it. When the player presses the up arrow key, the code attached to the when up block is run. And we'll do the same thing to make R2D2 move down. Now instead of writing all the code to control our droid in advance, we can let R2D2 react to button press events that move him around the screen. Step by step, your game is getting more interactive.
