With timestamps:

00:01 - Welcome to the Hour of Code...
00:14 - Hi I'm Kathleen Kennedy and I'm the producer
of Star Wars: The Force Awakens. Today you'll
00:20 - be working with one of our stars, BB-8. BB-8
is a spherical droid. Everything he does and
00:27 - every movement that he makes is controlled
by computer software. Computer science impacts
00:34 - every industry, from marketing to health care
to film. In fact, hundreds of computer engineers
00:41 - worked together to make a film like The Force
Awakens.
00:45 - Hi, I'm Rachel Rose. I'm a senior R&D engineer
at ILM and I lead the animation and creature
00:51 - development team. In The Force Awakens, I'm
responsible for helping the artist develop
00:57 - rigs, which are the parts of the character
that move that allow the character to look
01:03 - very believable in a galaxy far, far away.
In the next hour, we're going to build our
01:08 - own Star Wars game that will teach you the
basic concepts of programming. Usually programming
01:13 - is all text but we're going to use blocks
here so we can drag and drop to write the
01:17 - programs. To start off, we're going to work
with Rey to program BB-8 to walk to collect
01:23 - all of the scrap parts.
Your screen is split into three parts. On
01:27 - the left is the Star Wars game space where
code will run. The instructions for each level
01:32 - are written below the game space. This middle
area is the toolbox and each of these blocks
01:37 - is a command that BB-8 can understand. The
white space on the right is called the work
01:42 - space and this is where we're going to build
our program.
01:44 - If I drag the moveLeft block to our workspace,
what happens? BB-8 moves left one block on
01:51 - the grid. And what if I want BB-8 to do something
after the move left block? I can add another
01:56 - block to our program. I'm going to choose
the moveUp block and I'll drag it under my
02:02 - moveLeft block until the highlight appears.
Then I'll drop it and the two blocks will
02:06 - snap together.
When I press run again, BB-8 will perform
02:10 - the commands that are stacked top to bottom
on our workspace. If you ever want to delete
02:15 - a block, just remove it from the stack and
drag it back into the toolbox. After you hit
02:20 - run, you can always hit the reset button to
get BB-8 back to the start. Now let's get rolling!

Cleaned transcript:

Welcome to the Hour of Code... Hi I'm Kathleen Kennedy and I'm the producer of Star Wars The Force Awakens. Today you'll be working with one of our stars, BB8. BB8 is a spherical droid. Everything he does and every movement that he makes is controlled by computer software. Computer science impacts every industry, from marketing to health care to film. In fact, hundreds of computer engineers worked together to make a film like The Force Awakens. Hi, I'm Rachel Rose. I'm a senior R&D engineer at ILM and I lead the animation and creature development team. In The Force Awakens, I'm responsible for helping the artist develop rigs, which are the parts of the character that move that allow the character to look very believable in a galaxy far, far away. In the next hour, we're going to build our own Star Wars game that will teach you the basic concepts of programming. Usually programming is all text but we're going to use blocks here so we can drag and drop to write the programs. To start off, we're going to work with Rey to program BB8 to walk to collect all of the scrap parts. Your screen is split into three parts. On the left is the Star Wars game space where code will run. The instructions for each level are written below the game space. This middle area is the toolbox and each of these blocks is a command that BB8 can understand. The white space on the right is called the work space and this is where we're going to build our program. If I drag the moveLeft block to our workspace, what happens? BB8 moves left one block on the grid. And what if I want BB8 to do something after the move left block? I can add another block to our program. I'm going to choose the moveUp block and I'll drag it under my moveLeft block until the highlight appears. Then I'll drop it and the two blocks will snap together. When I press run again, BB8 will perform the commands that are stacked top to bottom on our workspace. If you ever want to delete a block, just remove it from the stack and drag it back into the toolbox. After you hit run, you can always hit the reset button to get BB8 back to the start. Now let's get rolling!
