With timestamps:

00:00 - Hi, my name is Alice and I run the product
and engineering teams here at Code.org and
00:05 - I worked on this tutorial that you're playing
through right now. You just made it to the
00:09 - last level. Congratulations! You just learned
everything you need to know to make your own
00:14 - Star Wars game. Now there are no more instructions,
no puzzles to solve. You can make your own
00:19 - game and you choose how it works. One more
thing, you've unlocked new sounds and new
00:25 - commands to do even more.
[students speaking] So we made a game basically
00:29 - where you get points when you get puffer pigs.
The twist is everytime you get a puffer pig
00:34 - a storm trooper appears. Eventually the whole
screen is full of puffer pigs and then when
00:38 - you touch 10,000 of them, you win.
[students speaking] We made a game where you
00:44 - can't lose and everything you kill gives you
points. For my program, I reversed the keys
00:47 - so that whenever you click up, your character
goes down and when you click right, your character
00:50 - goes left. It's really hard! Sometimes you
just get an advantage, an inherent advantage
00:57 - if you're the developer of the game. Did I
get it? Yay!
01:08 - When you're done making your game, choose
share to get a link you can share with friends
01:12 - or play your game on your phone. Have fun!
01:15 - Subtitles by the Amara.org community

Cleaned transcript:

Hi, my name is Alice and I run the product and engineering teams here at Code.org and I worked on this tutorial that you're playing through right now. You just made it to the last level. Congratulations! You just learned everything you need to know to make your own Star Wars game. Now there are no more instructions, no puzzles to solve. You can make your own game and you choose how it works. One more thing, you've unlocked new sounds and new commands to do even more. [students speaking] So we made a game basically where you get points when you get puffer pigs. The twist is everytime you get a puffer pig a storm trooper appears. Eventually the whole screen is full of puffer pigs and then when you touch 10,000 of them, you win. [students speaking] We made a game where you can't lose and everything you kill gives you points. For my program, I reversed the keys so that whenever you click up, your character goes down and when you click right, your character goes left. It's really hard! Sometimes you just get an advantage, an inherent advantage if you're the developer of the game. Did I get it? Yay! When you're done making your game, choose share to get a link you can share with friends or play your game on your phone. Have fun! Subtitles by the Amara.org community
