With timestamps:

00:09 - Congratulations!
00:11 - You successfully completed the Teaching Computer
Science Fundamentals online course, brought
00:15 - to you by Code.org.
00:16 - I hope by this time, you've had a chance to
practice coding and have developed a good
00:21 - strategy for how you will bring computer science
to your students.
00:24 - No matter what your next step might be, you're
now part of the growing community of teachers
00:28 - preparing their students for the future.
00:31 - As you continue your journey, there are lots
of resources to get support.
00:34 - One great resource is forum.code.org, a professional
learning community for educators just like
00:39 - you.
00:40 - It's a great place to post questions, find
lesson plans, and get help from your peers.
00:45 - Another option is to follow @TeachCode on
Twitter.
00:49 - This is our teacher community online, and
it's where we're going to be announcing all
00:52 - of the great learning opportunities that are
to come.
00:55 - And most importantly, spend some time on studio.code.org
completing levels and deciding which lessons
01:00 - and tutorials are best for your students.

Cleaned transcript:

Congratulations! You successfully completed the Teaching Computer Science Fundamentals online course, brought to you by Code.org. I hope by this time, you've had a chance to practice coding and have developed a good strategy for how you will bring computer science to your students. No matter what your next step might be, you're now part of the growing community of teachers preparing their students for the future. As you continue your journey, there are lots of resources to get support. One great resource is forum.code.org, a professional learning community for educators just like you. It's a great place to post questions, find lesson plans, and get help from your peers. Another option is to follow @TeachCode on Twitter. This is our teacher community online, and it's where we're going to be announcing all of the great learning opportunities that are to come. And most importantly, spend some time on studio.code.org completing levels and deciding which lessons and tutorials are best for your students.
