With timestamps:

00:03 - The lead learner is someone who is learning 
alongside their students. You might be a day
00:09 - ahead, a month ahead, a week ahead, but you're 
learning a lot alongside your students.
00:14 - It's actually saying, "Hey, I don't know - let's figure 
it out together!"
00:18 - For me to be a lead learner, it means that I'm embracing not being the 
fountain of knowledge in the classroom.
00:27 - You don't always have to know all of the answers. 
You do have to dig a little bit. You do have to
00:33 - be ready to explore other ways of thinking, and 
that's amazing, because it makes you more creative
00:39 - and it makes you more open to different ways of 
doing things, different ways that people think.
00:45 - Being willing to acknowledge, "I never saw that" 
or "I didn't know that" or "That's a great resource"
00:51 - is a new feeling, and it can be 
uncomfortable, which it was for me.
00:55 - but eventually just getting to the place of 
saying, "That's what computer science is all about."
01:00 - Instead of me being the giver of knowledge, I'm allowing students to
01:04 - own their learning and to rely on their peers 
for collaboration: getting feedback, asking another student,
01:11 - "Hey, how would you make this better?" instead 
of, "Hey Miss Reitz-Larson, what would you do to make the project better?",
01:17 - It allows the students to reach out to their peers as well.

Cleaned transcript:

The lead learner is someone who is learning alongside their students. You might be a day ahead, a month ahead, a week ahead, but you're learning a lot alongside your students. It's actually saying, "Hey, I don't know let's figure it out together!" For me to be a lead learner, it means that I'm embracing not being the fountain of knowledge in the classroom. You don't always have to know all of the answers. You do have to dig a little bit. You do have to be ready to explore other ways of thinking, and that's amazing, because it makes you more creative and it makes you more open to different ways of doing things, different ways that people think. Being willing to acknowledge, "I never saw that" or "I didn't know that" or "That's a great resource" is a new feeling, and it can be uncomfortable, which it was for me. but eventually just getting to the place of saying, "That's what computer science is all about." Instead of me being the giver of knowledge, I'm allowing students to own their learning and to rely on their peers for collaboration getting feedback, asking another student, "Hey, how would you make this better?" instead of, "Hey Miss ReitzLarson, what would you do to make the project better?", It allows the students to reach out to their peers as well.
