With timestamps:

00:01 - ﻿Closed Caption: Text Compression 
Widget with Aloe Blacc
 
00:04 - [Music] 
My name is Aloe  
00:05 - Blacc. I’m a singer, songwriter, 
and entertainer. [Music] 
 
00:14 - When it became more and more important for 
artists to have a presence on the internet,  
00:18 - I quickly developed the skill to 
build a website and get online and  
00:26 - use my knowledge of coding to make it so that 
people could learn more about our music. [Music] 
 
00:35 - Every bit of data or information 
can be stored digitally. 
 
00:39 - Whether it’s numbers, texts, pictures, music, or 
video, all of it can be represented digitally. 
 
00:44 - That means the information can be represented 
by electrical signals that are on or off,  
00:49 - or as ones and zeros, so to speak. 
But representing information in ones and  
00:54 - zeros can take up a lot of space. For example, if 
you wanted to store a three-minute song digitally  
01:00 - it would take up over 30 megabytes of space. A 
one-hour HD video would take 800 gigabytes. 
 
01:06 - In the real world, digital information is 
compressed to take up less space. A 30-megabyte  
01:12 - song can be compressed down to three megabytes. 
An hour-long video can be compressed from 800  
01:17 - gigabytes down to just one gigabyte. 
Sometimes compression is lossy,  
01:23 - which means that to save some space some of 
the information is thrown away. For example,  
01:29 - an image can be compressed to a lower resolution 
to lose some detail. Lossy compression is useful  
01:34 - because in many cases the human eye or ear can’t 
even notice the details that are being lost. 
 
01:40 - When you compress data without losing 
any details, that’s called lossless  
01:44 - compression. This means the compressed data can 
be decompressed back into the exact original. 
 
01:50 - One way of doing lossless compression is to find 
patterns in the data you’re trying to compress. 
 
01:56 - As an extreme example, imagine a book about 
dogs, with hundreds of pages using only one word.  
02:02 - Each page just says dog dog dog dog, 
over and over a million times. Instead  
02:08 - of writing it all out you could just store 
the pattern, dog, times one million. 
 
02:13 - Now that’s a silly example but 
let’s look at a more real example. 
 
02:18 - Instead of a book, imagine the lyrics of a song. 
If a single word or phrase is repeated a lot,  
02:23 - you can store that once and then 
reuse it without repeating the data. 
 
02:28 - Let’s see how this works with a 
simple text compression widget.  
02:31 - This widget lets you experiment with compressing 
text. You want to represent the original text with  
02:36 - as few bytes as possible. The widget lets 
you try compressing different ways and see  
02:42 - it as it happens. Let’s see how it works! 
The widget shows you some text to compress.  
02:47 - In this example, lyrics to one of Aloe 
Blacc’s songs. In the dictionary area,  
02:52 - you can type patterns you see in the text. 
For now, let’s just look for words that repeat. As  
02:57 - you type in the dictionary area, a single symbol 
will be substituted in the main text area. 
 
03:02 - In the example here, you can see 
each occurrence of the words “I  
03:06 - was” has been replaced with a symbol of a sun. 
And “I’m” has been replaced with an umbrella. 
 
03:13 - If you sent the compressed 
version of the lyrics to someone,  
03:16 - you’d also have to send along the dictionary so 
that they could reconstruct the original text. 
 
03:22 - So the question is, is the total number 
of bytes in the compressed text plus the  
03:26 - bytes in the dictionary less than the 
number of bytes in the original text? 
 
03:31 - The answer is “yes” for our current example. 
And the widget shows you how it’s calculated. 
 
03:35 - We assume that every character that 
needs to be sent takes one byte. 
 
03:39 - So the display shows the compressed version of 
the lyrics with the symbols substituted in it  
03:44 - has 216 bytes or characters. 
It also shows the number of bytes  
03:49 - in the dictionary as 10. This is to 
store the words “I was” and “I'm.”  
03:54 - Also, the symbols that represent those patterns. 
This gives us a total of 226 bytes. We can see  
04:02 - that the original text had 240 characters 
or bytes. So we’ve reduced the bytes needed  
04:07 - to represent the poem by 14 bytes. 
Or, 5.8 percent. Not a bad start! 
 
04:13 - Looking for words that repeat is a good 
start. But you can look for other patterns. 
 
04:17 - Sometimes a repeating pattern can be 
a sub part of a word, or many words. 
 
04:22 - Here’s where it really gets cool. 
 
04:25 - You can find patterns that include dictionary 
symbols you’ve just made. For example, we replaced  
04:31 - the words “I was” with the sun symbol. 
But now you can also see a new pattern:  
04:36 - “didn’t know” sun symbol “lost.” You 
can type this in the dictionary too. 
 
04:43 - As a side note, to enter the sun 
symbol you need to copy and paste it,  
04:47 - unless your keyboard has a sun on it. 
With that little change,  
04:52 - we’re now up to 26 percent compression. 
Try it yourself and see if you can do better! 
 
04:58 - The repetition in a song lyric 
or poem is obvious. But really,  
05:02 - any form of information can have repetition or 
patterns in it. ’They’re just not as obvious. 
 
05:07 - For example, an outdoors photo can have 
a blue sky. And instead of storing every  
05:12 - single blue pixel, that can be compressed. 
With the amount of information that’s digitized  
05:17 - and sent around the internet every day, there 
are much fancier ways to compress the data. 
 
05:22 - Data compression is now built into how 
every picture or song or movie is stored.  
05:26 - And almost every web page you visit is 
compressed as it’s sent to your device. 
 
05:31 - All these compression algorithms 
have one thing in common:  
05:34 - they all aim to represent the information in the 
smallest format possible, in a way that can be  
05:39 - decompressed to reconstruct the original, 
or at least something close to it. [Music]

Cleaned transcript:

﻿Closed Caption Text Compression Widget with Aloe Blacc My name is Aloe Blacc. I’m a singer, songwriter, and entertainer. When it became more and more important for artists to have a presence on the internet, I quickly developed the skill to build a website and get online and use my knowledge of coding to make it so that people could learn more about our music. Every bit of data or information can be stored digitally. Whether it’s numbers, texts, pictures, music, or video, all of it can be represented digitally. That means the information can be represented by electrical signals that are on or off, or as ones and zeros, so to speak. But representing information in ones and zeros can take up a lot of space. For example, if you wanted to store a threeminute song digitally it would take up over 30 megabytes of space. A onehour HD video would take 800 gigabytes. In the real world, digital information is compressed to take up less space. A 30megabyte song can be compressed down to three megabytes. An hourlong video can be compressed from 800 gigabytes down to just one gigabyte. Sometimes compression is lossy, which means that to save some space some of the information is thrown away. For example, an image can be compressed to a lower resolution to lose some detail. Lossy compression is useful because in many cases the human eye or ear can’t even notice the details that are being lost. When you compress data without losing any details, that’s called lossless compression. This means the compressed data can be decompressed back into the exact original. One way of doing lossless compression is to find patterns in the data you’re trying to compress. As an extreme example, imagine a book about dogs, with hundreds of pages using only one word. Each page just says dog dog dog dog, over and over a million times. Instead of writing it all out you could just store the pattern, dog, times one million. Now that’s a silly example but let’s look at a more real example. Instead of a book, imagine the lyrics of a song. If a single word or phrase is repeated a lot, you can store that once and then reuse it without repeating the data. Let’s see how this works with a simple text compression widget. This widget lets you experiment with compressing text. You want to represent the original text with as few bytes as possible. The widget lets you try compressing different ways and see it as it happens. Let’s see how it works! The widget shows you some text to compress. In this example, lyrics to one of Aloe Blacc’s songs. In the dictionary area, you can type patterns you see in the text. For now, let’s just look for words that repeat. As you type in the dictionary area, a single symbol will be substituted in the main text area. In the example here, you can see each occurrence of the words “I was” has been replaced with a symbol of a sun. And “I’m” has been replaced with an umbrella. If you sent the compressed version of the lyrics to someone, you’d also have to send along the dictionary so that they could reconstruct the original text. So the question is, is the total number of bytes in the compressed text plus the bytes in the dictionary less than the number of bytes in the original text? The answer is “yes” for our current example. And the widget shows you how it’s calculated. We assume that every character that needs to be sent takes one byte. So the display shows the compressed version of the lyrics with the symbols substituted in it has 216 bytes or characters. It also shows the number of bytes in the dictionary as 10. This is to store the words “I was” and “I'm.” Also, the symbols that represent those patterns. This gives us a total of 226 bytes. We can see that the original text had 240 characters or bytes. So we’ve reduced the bytes needed to represent the poem by 14 bytes. Or, 5.8 percent. Not a bad start! Looking for words that repeat is a good start. But you can look for other patterns. Sometimes a repeating pattern can be a sub part of a word, or many words. Here’s where it really gets cool. You can find patterns that include dictionary symbols you’ve just made. For example, we replaced the words “I was” with the sun symbol. But now you can also see a new pattern “didn’t know” sun symbol “lost.” You can type this in the dictionary too. As a side note, to enter the sun symbol you need to copy and paste it, unless your keyboard has a sun on it. With that little change, we’re now up to 26 percent compression. Try it yourself and see if you can do better! The repetition in a song lyric or poem is obvious. But really, any form of information can have repetition or patterns in it. ’They’re just not as obvious. For example, an outdoors photo can have a blue sky. And instead of storing every single blue pixel, that can be compressed. With the amount of information that’s digitized and sent around the internet every day, there are much fancier ways to compress the data. Data compression is now built into how every picture or song or movie is stored. And almost every web page you visit is compressed as it’s sent to your device. All these compression algorithms have one thing in common they all aim to represent the information in the smallest format possible, in a way that can be decompressed to reconstruct the original, or at least something close to it.
