With timestamps:

00:09 - Paola: Hi! My name is Paola, and I am a software 
engineer here at Microsoft. Let’s talk about how  
00:15 - the internet works. My job relies on networks 
being able to talk with one another, but back in  
00:22 - the 1970s, there was no standard method for this. 
It took the work of Vint Cerf and Bob Kahn to  
00:30 - invent the internetworking protocol to make 
communication possible. This invention laid the  
00:36 - groundwork for what we now call the internet. 
Vint: The internet is a network of networks.  
00:42 - It links billions of devices together all 
around the globe. So maybe you’re connected  
00:47 - with a laptop or a phone through wifi, but 
then that wifi connection connects to an  
00:53 - internet service provider (or ISP), and that ISP 
connects you to billions and billions of devices  
00:59 - around the world through hundreds of thousands of 
networks that are all interconnected. One thing  
01:06 - that most people do not appreciate is that the 
internet is really a design philosophy and an  
01:12 - architecture expressed in a set of protocols. 
A protocol is a well-known set of rules and  
01:18 - standards that, if all parties agree to use it, 
will allow them to communicate without trouble.  
01:24 - How the internet actually physically works is 
less important than the fact that this design  
01:30 - philosophy has allowed the internet to adapt 
and absorb new communication technologies.  
01:36 - This is because in order for a new technology 
to use the internet in some fashion, it just  
01:41 - needs to know which protocols to work with.
Vint: All the different devices on the internet  
01:46 - have unique addresses. An address on the internet 
is just a number, similar to a phone number or a  
01:52 - sort of street address, that’s unique to each 
computer or device at the edge of the network.  
01:59 - This is similar to how most homes and businesses 
have a mailing address. You don’t need to know a  
02:04 - person to send them a letter in the mail, but 
you do need to know their address and how to  
02:08 - write the address properly so the letter can be 
carried by the mail system to its destination.  
02:14 - The addressing system for computers 
on the internet is similar,  
02:18 - and it forms part of one of the most important 
protocols used in internet communication,  
02:23 - simply called the internet protocol (or IP). 
A computer’s address, then, is called its IP  
02:29 - address. Visiting a website is really just your 
computer asking another computer for information.  
02:35 - Your computer sends a message to 
the other computer’s IP address,  
02:38 - and it also sends along its origin address, so the 
other computer knows where to send its response. 
 
02:43 - Paola: You may have seen an IP address. It’s just 
a bunch of numbers! These numbers are organized  
02:51 - in a hierarchy. Just like a home address has a 
country, a city, a street, and a house number,  
02:58 - an IP address has many parts. Just like all 
digital data, each of these numbers is represented  
03:05 - in bits. Traditional IP addresses are 32 
bits long with 8 bits for each part of the  
03:12 - address. The earlier numbers usually identify 
the country and regional network of the device.  
03:18 - Then come the subnetworks, and then finally the 
address of the specific device. This version of  
03:25 - IP addressing is called IPv4. It was designed 
in 1973 and widely adopted in the early 80s  
03:33 - and provides for more than 4 billion unique 
addresses for devices connecting to the internet.  
03:39 - But the internet has turned out to be much 
more popular than even Vint Cerf imagined,  
03:45 - and 4 billion unique addresses won’t 
be enough. We’re now in the middle of a  
03:50 - multi-year transition to a longer IP address 
format called IPv6 which uses 128 bits per  
03:58 - address and provides over 340 undecillion unique 
addresses. That’s more than enough for every grain  
04:07 - of sand on Earth to have its own IP address. 
Vint: Most users never see or care about  
04:13 - internet addresses. A system called 
the “domain name system” (or DNS)  
04:18 - associates names like www.example.com with the 
corresponding addresses. Your computer uses the  
04:25 - DNS to look up domain names and get the associated 
IP address, which is used to connect your  
04:30 - computer to the destination on the internet. 
(Then it goes a little somethin’ like this!) 
 
04:34 - Voice 1: Hey, hi there, I 
want to go to www.code.org. 
 
04:38 - Voice 2: Mm… yeah I don’t know the, uh— the 
IP address for that domain; let me ask around.  
04:46 - Hey, do you know how to get to, uh, code.org?
Voice 3: Yeah, I got it right here;  
04:54 - it’s a 174.129.14.120. 
Voice 2: Oh, okay, great.  
05:01 - Thanks. Yeah I’m gonna— I’m gonna write that down 
and save it for later in case I need it. Hey,  
05:05 - here’s that address you wanted.
Voice 1: Awesome! Thank  
05:07 - you. 
Paola:  
05:13 - So how do we design a system for billions 
of devices to find any one of billions of  
05:19 - different websites? There is no way one DNS server 
can handle all the requests from all devices.  
05:27 - The answer is that DNS servers are connected in a 
distributed hierarchy and are divided into zones,  
05:33 - splitting up responsibility for the major domains 
such as .org, .com, .net, etc. DNS was originally  
05:43 - created to be an open and public communication 
protocol for government and educational  
05:48 - institutions. Because of its openness, DNS is 
susceptible to cyberattacks. An example attack is  
05:56 - DNS spoofing. That’s when a hacker taps into a DNS 
server and changes it to match a domain name with  
06:04 - the wrong IP address. This lets the attackers send 
people to an imposter website. If this happens to  
06:12 - you, you are vulnerable for more problems because 
you are using that fake website as if it is real.  
06:21 - The internet is huge and getting bigger 
every day, but the domain name system and  
06:27 - internet protocol are designed to scale, 
no matter how much the internet grows.

Cleaned transcript:

Paola Hi! My name is Paola, and I am a software engineer here at Microsoft. Let’s talk about how the internet works. My job relies on networks being able to talk with one another, but back in the 1970s, there was no standard method for this. It took the work of Vint Cerf and Bob Kahn to invent the internetworking protocol to make communication possible. This invention laid the groundwork for what we now call the internet. Vint The internet is a network of networks. It links billions of devices together all around the globe. So maybe you’re connected with a laptop or a phone through wifi, but then that wifi connection connects to an internet service provider (or ISP), and that ISP connects you to billions and billions of devices around the world through hundreds of thousands of networks that are all interconnected. One thing that most people do not appreciate is that the internet is really a design philosophy and an architecture expressed in a set of protocols. A protocol is a wellknown set of rules and standards that, if all parties agree to use it, will allow them to communicate without trouble. How the internet actually physically works is less important than the fact that this design philosophy has allowed the internet to adapt and absorb new communication technologies. This is because in order for a new technology to use the internet in some fashion, it just needs to know which protocols to work with. Vint All the different devices on the internet have unique addresses. An address on the internet is just a number, similar to a phone number or a sort of street address, that’s unique to each computer or device at the edge of the network. This is similar to how most homes and businesses have a mailing address. You don’t need to know a person to send them a letter in the mail, but you do need to know their address and how to write the address properly so the letter can be carried by the mail system to its destination. The addressing system for computers on the internet is similar, and it forms part of one of the most important protocols used in internet communication, simply called the internet protocol (or IP). A computer’s address, then, is called its IP address. Visiting a website is really just your computer asking another computer for information. Your computer sends a message to the other computer’s IP address, and it also sends along its origin address, so the other computer knows where to send its response. Paola You may have seen an IP address. It’s just a bunch of numbers! These numbers are organized in a hierarchy. Just like a home address has a country, a city, a street, and a house number, an IP address has many parts. Just like all digital data, each of these numbers is represented in bits. Traditional IP addresses are 32 bits long with 8 bits for each part of the address. The earlier numbers usually identify the country and regional network of the device. Then come the subnetworks, and then finally the address of the specific device. This version of IP addressing is called IPv4. It was designed in 1973 and widely adopted in the early 80s and provides for more than 4 billion unique addresses for devices connecting to the internet. But the internet has turned out to be much more popular than even Vint Cerf imagined, and 4 billion unique addresses won’t be enough. We’re now in the middle of a multiyear transition to a longer IP address format called IPv6 which uses 128 bits per address and provides over 340 undecillion unique addresses. That’s more than enough for every grain of sand on Earth to have its own IP address. Vint Most users never see or care about internet addresses. A system called the “domain name system” (or DNS) associates names like www.example.com with the corresponding addresses. Your computer uses the DNS to look up domain names and get the associated IP address, which is used to connect your computer to the destination on the internet. (Then it goes a little somethin’ like this!) Voice 1 Hey, hi there, I want to go to www.code.org. Voice 2 Mm… yeah I don’t know the, uh— the IP address for that domain; let me ask around. Hey, do you know how to get to, uh, code.org? Voice 3 Yeah, I got it right here; it’s a 174.129.14.120. Voice 2 Oh, okay, great. Thanks. Yeah I’m gonna— I’m gonna write that down and save it for later in case I need it. Hey, here’s that address you wanted. Voice 1 Awesome! Thank you. Paola So how do we design a system for billions of devices to find any one of billions of different websites? There is no way one DNS server can handle all the requests from all devices. The answer is that DNS servers are connected in a distributed hierarchy and are divided into zones, splitting up responsibility for the major domains such as .org, .com, .net, etc. DNS was originally created to be an open and public communication protocol for government and educational institutions. Because of its openness, DNS is susceptible to cyberattacks. An example attack is DNS spoofing. That’s when a hacker taps into a DNS server and changes it to match a domain name with the wrong IP address. This lets the attackers send people to an imposter website. If this happens to you, you are vulnerable for more problems because you are using that fake website as if it is real. The internet is huge and getting bigger every day, but the domain name system and internet protocol are designed to scale, no matter how much the internet grows.
