With timestamps:

00:01 - Unplugged Activity | Crowdsourcing
00:06 - This lesson is called crowdsourcing. In this lesson we'll
00:09 - use a deck of cards to learn about how much
easier some things can be to do in groups
00:12 - instead of trying to do them all alone. So
grab some friends and make something awesome.
00:18 - Crowdsourcing is getting help from a large
group of people to finish something faster.
00:21 - In computer science, we use crowdsourcing
all the time. Thousands of amateurs and professionals
00:26 - link their computers together to search through
billions and billions of pieces of information.
00:31 - Looking for things like the next Marsenne
prime number, or even possible alien communications.
00:35 - First you were all like, woah! And then we
were like, woah! And then you were like, woah...
00:42 - When you see a movie, each second of the movie
is 24 individual pictures, we call those frames.
00:49 - So every one of those pictures needs to be
created and rendered and put all together.
00:54 - My team and I, we're all software developers.
We all work together to create a piece of
00:59 - software that actually creates an image, creates
the final image that you see on screen. That's
01:05 - a tool that artists and other developers can
use as part of their teamwork and their process
01:11 - to be able to create the images that they
want on screen. For example, in Finding Nemo,
01:16 - when Crush and Squirt and all their friends
are flying through the East Australian Current,
01:21 - You're seeing images of water flowing by,
you're seeing the colors on the back of the
01:26 - turtle, you're seeing the sides of the fish.
All of those things are generated through
01:31 - math and computer programs that we write,
that we then give to the artist and they take
01:35 - that to create that final image and tweak
it and make it look beautiful and look fun.

Cleaned transcript:

Unplugged Activity | Crowdsourcing This lesson is called crowdsourcing. In this lesson we'll use a deck of cards to learn about how much easier some things can be to do in groups instead of trying to do them all alone. So grab some friends and make something awesome. Crowdsourcing is getting help from a large group of people to finish something faster. In computer science, we use crowdsourcing all the time. Thousands of amateurs and professionals link their computers together to search through billions and billions of pieces of information. Looking for things like the next Marsenne prime number, or even possible alien communications. First you were all like, woah! And then we were like, woah! And then you were like, woah... When you see a movie, each second of the movie is 24 individual pictures, we call those frames. So every one of those pictures needs to be created and rendered and put all together. My team and I, we're all software developers. We all work together to create a piece of software that actually creates an image, creates the final image that you see on screen. That's a tool that artists and other developers can use as part of their teamwork and their process to be able to create the images that they want on screen. For example, in Finding Nemo, when Crush and Squirt and all their friends are flying through the East Australian Current, You're seeing images of water flowing by, you're seeing the colors on the back of the turtle, you're seeing the sides of the fish. All of those things are generated through math and computer programs that we write, that we then give to the artist and they take that to create that final image and tweak it and make it look beautiful and look fun.
