With timestamps:

00:13 - This lesson is called Tangram Algorithms.
00:15 - A tangram is a puzzle with seven pieces that
can be put together to make other shapes.
00:21 - You'll be using an algorithm to explain to
your partner how to put the puzzle together.
00:26 - An algorithm is just a list steps that you
can take to complete a task.
00:30 - We use them every day with things like shopping
lists and recipes.
00:34 - If you keep an algorithm simple, there are
lots of ways to interpret it and whoever performs
00:40 - that algorithm might not get exactly what
you wanted.
00:43 - If you want to make sure that everyone ends
up with the exact same thing, then your algorithm
00:48 - will need to be detailed and very specific.
00:51 - I'm using an algorithm today to complete a
painting.
00:54 - I wanted to try doing a painting of some wolves
but I'm not the most amazing painter.
01:00 - Luckily for people by me, there is paint by
numbers.
01:04 - There are forty colors and it has little letters
and numbers that tell you which color to paint
01:12 - each section.
01:14 - Paint by numbers tells me exactly what color
to use and where.
01:20 - It's very specific so I'm able to follow directions
and the painting will come out looking awesome.
01:25 - It's a great algorithm.
01:27 - If the instructions weren't specific enough,
my wolves wouldn't look as good.
01:32 - When you really want something to turn out
exactly the way that you planned it, it's
01:36 - best to be extremely precise.

Cleaned transcript:

This lesson is called Tangram Algorithms. A tangram is a puzzle with seven pieces that can be put together to make other shapes. You'll be using an algorithm to explain to your partner how to put the puzzle together. An algorithm is just a list steps that you can take to complete a task. We use them every day with things like shopping lists and recipes. If you keep an algorithm simple, there are lots of ways to interpret it and whoever performs that algorithm might not get exactly what you wanted. If you want to make sure that everyone ends up with the exact same thing, then your algorithm will need to be detailed and very specific. I'm using an algorithm today to complete a painting. I wanted to try doing a painting of some wolves but I'm not the most amazing painter. Luckily for people by me, there is paint by numbers. There are forty colors and it has little letters and numbers that tell you which color to paint each section. Paint by numbers tells me exactly what color to use and where. It's very specific so I'm able to follow directions and the painting will come out looking awesome. It's a great algorithm. If the instructions weren't specific enough, my wolves wouldn't look as good. When you really want something to turn out exactly the way that you planned it, it's best to be extremely precise.
