With timestamps:

00:07 - Our lesson on abstraction uses the familiar
concept of madlibs, where you basically insert
00:14 - a blank in a story that can be filled with
lots of different words.
00:19 - We take that idea, challenge kids to come
up with their own words for their own stories,
00:24 - and really explain the concept of abstraction.
00:28 - It's all about functions and how you can have
a function, like in Old Macdonald, where you
00:33 - have a structure for your chorus but you have
something little that changes and you abstract
00:38 - out that little thing that changes and you
can fill it in with your own word every time
00:42 - through.
00:44 - But sometimes you have three words that change
and so you fill those in with three parameters,
00:50 - that's still pretty helpful.
00:51 - You can have one function that handles lots
of different problems.
00:56 - Lots of times people will write separate functions
for all those problems, not realizing there's
01:01 - only one little difference.
01:02 - If they could just find a way to handle that
one little difference, they could just reuse
01:07 - one function over and over again, instead
of having 14 different functions.

Cleaned transcript:

Our lesson on abstraction uses the familiar concept of madlibs, where you basically insert a blank in a story that can be filled with lots of different words. We take that idea, challenge kids to come up with their own words for their own stories, and really explain the concept of abstraction. It's all about functions and how you can have a function, like in Old Macdonald, where you have a structure for your chorus but you have something little that changes and you abstract out that little thing that changes and you can fill it in with your own word every time through. But sometimes you have three words that change and so you fill those in with three parameters, that's still pretty helpful. You can have one function that handles lots of different problems. Lots of times people will write separate functions for all those problems, not realizing there's only one little difference. If they could just find a way to handle that one little difference, they could just reuse one function over and over again, instead of having 14 different functions.
