With timestamps:

00:05 - This lesson is called dice race.
00:09 - Almost everyone likes to play computer games.
00:11 - Have you ever thought about how computer programmers
turn the steps of a game into a program?
00:17 - The first step in creating computer games
and in solving any problem requires thinking
00:22 - and planning.
00:23 - The thinking step of problem solving produces
an algorithm, which is a step by step plan
00:29 - for solving a problem or finishing a task.
00:33 - In this lesson, you'll create an algorithm
for a dice race game.
00:38 - Then you'll ask your friends to try out your
plan to see if they can follow the steps to
00:43 - play the game.
00:44 - After the programmer is sure the steps are
correct, it's time to translate the algorithm
00:49 - into a program with language that the computer
can understand.
00:53 - Almost everything we do every day requires
an algorithm, a list of steps you can follow
00:59 - to finish a task.
01:01 - Think about getting ready for school or planning
a fun day with your friends or fixing a snack.
01:06 - To complete any of those tasks, you'll need
to break it down into smaller steps and sometimes
01:13 - the steps must be in a specific order.
01:16 - Think about making a sandwich.
01:18 - It doesn't matter which ingredient you get
out of the cabinet first.
01:21 - But you can't spread the peanut butter until
you open the jar.
01:25 - Computers need algorithms and programs to
show them how to do even simple things that
01:30 - we can do without thinking about it.
01:32 - An algorithm is the thinking behind what needs
to happen while the program is the actual
01:38 - instructions given to the computer to make
it happen.
01:42 - An algorithm has to be translated into a program
before a computer can run it.
01:47 - Breaking a task into steps called an algorithm
is sometimes difficult.
01:52 - But like any new skill, it gets easier and
easier with practice.

Cleaned transcript:

This lesson is called dice race. Almost everyone likes to play computer games. Have you ever thought about how computer programmers turn the steps of a game into a program? The first step in creating computer games and in solving any problem requires thinking and planning. The thinking step of problem solving produces an algorithm, which is a step by step plan for solving a problem or finishing a task. In this lesson, you'll create an algorithm for a dice race game. Then you'll ask your friends to try out your plan to see if they can follow the steps to play the game. After the programmer is sure the steps are correct, it's time to translate the algorithm into a program with language that the computer can understand. Almost everything we do every day requires an algorithm, a list of steps you can follow to finish a task. Think about getting ready for school or planning a fun day with your friends or fixing a snack. To complete any of those tasks, you'll need to break it down into smaller steps and sometimes the steps must be in a specific order. Think about making a sandwich. It doesn't matter which ingredient you get out of the cabinet first. But you can't spread the peanut butter until you open the jar. Computers need algorithms and programs to show them how to do even simple things that we can do without thinking about it. An algorithm is the thinking behind what needs to happen while the program is the actual instructions given to the computer to make it happen. An algorithm has to be translated into a program before a computer can run it. Breaking a task into steps called an algorithm is sometimes difficult. But like any new skill, it gets easier and easier with practice.
