With timestamps:

00:08 - The lesson on computational thinking is intended
to teach you how to take a big difficult problem
00:13 - and break it down into several simpler problems.
00:17 - The goal of this lesson is to write a set
of instructions that someone can follow to
00:22 - draw one of the monsters included in the lesson
plan.
00:26 - Students will break into groups to write instructions
and then they'll switch them with another
00:30 - group that will have to draw the monster.
00:33 - Groups will write instructions using the four
steps of computational thinking: decomposition,
00:39 - pattern location, abstraction and algorithms.
00:43 - First groups will decompose the task which
means make a game plan.
00:49 - Then they'll look for patterns between all
the monsters in the catalog.
00:53 - When they come across differences between
the monsters, they'll abstract or remove those
00:59 - details.
01:00 - For instance, one monster in the catalog has
vegitas eyes and another has spritem eyes.
01:06 - But they both have eyes so we can write a
line that says the monster has blank eyes.
01:13 - So students will be able to write a set of
instructions, called an algorithm, that list
01:18 - the monsters' parts with blanks for what the
styles should be.
01:22 - This is the set of instructions they'll pass
to other students to recreate their very own
01:27 - monster.

Cleaned transcript:

The lesson on computational thinking is intended to teach you how to take a big difficult problem and break it down into several simpler problems. The goal of this lesson is to write a set of instructions that someone can follow to draw one of the monsters included in the lesson plan. Students will break into groups to write instructions and then they'll switch them with another group that will have to draw the monster. Groups will write instructions using the four steps of computational thinking decomposition, pattern location, abstraction and algorithms. First groups will decompose the task which means make a game plan. Then they'll look for patterns between all the monsters in the catalog. When they come across differences between the monsters, they'll abstract or remove those details. For instance, one monster in the catalog has vegitas eyes and another has spritem eyes. But they both have eyes so we can write a line that says the monster has blank eyes. So students will be able to write a set of instructions, called an algorithm, that list the monsters' parts with blanks for what the styles should be. This is the set of instructions they'll pass to other students to recreate their very own monster.
