With timestamps:

00:00 - Unplugged Activity | Graph Paper Programming
00:07 - This lesson is called "Graph Paper Programming"
00:10 - and it's all about algorithms. Today we're
going to learn how to write programs that
00:14 - show each other how to recreate simple black
and white images, using only hand drawn arrows.
00:27 - An algorithm is a list of instructions for
completing a task. We'll follow this set of
00:34 - instructions to make the bowl. Algorithms
are really helpful when you need someone else
00:41 - to understand how to do something. If you're
writing an algorithm for a computer, you have
00:47 - to break it down to little tiny steps. So
finish this row and go to the next, then the
00:53 - next one, and you'll be done. I use algorithms
in my work. If I write down all of the steps
01:03 - I can recreate that same piece again, or I
can teach someone else to do it. Put the glass
01:12 - in the kiln, fuse it together, follow the
rest of the instructions to make the bowl.
01:19 - Algorithms give you a road map for getting
something done.

Cleaned transcript:

Unplugged Activity | Graph Paper Programming This lesson is called "Graph Paper Programming" and it's all about algorithms. Today we're going to learn how to write programs that show each other how to recreate simple black and white images, using only hand drawn arrows. An algorithm is a list of instructions for completing a task. We'll follow this set of instructions to make the bowl. Algorithms are really helpful when you need someone else to understand how to do something. If you're writing an algorithm for a computer, you have to break it down to little tiny steps. So finish this row and go to the next, then the next one, and you'll be done. I use algorithms in my work. If I write down all of the steps I can recreate that same piece again, or I can teach someone else to do it. Put the glass in the kiln, fuse it together, follow the rest of the instructions to make the bowl. Algorithms give you a road map for getting something done.
