With timestamps:

00:09 - So now it's time to step back and take a birds
eye view of everything you've done in these
00:13 - past nineteen lessons.
00:15 - This is a great time to call out to students
that what they've just done is a huge achievement.
00:20 - They've learned more over these lessons than
most adults know about computer science.
00:26 - Discuss as a class or in small groups about
their favorite lessons.
00:30 - Once you take a look back at everything you've
learned, this is where your students' creativity
00:34 - can shine.
00:36 - Split them into groups and have them create
an unplugged lesson of their own.
00:40 - Assign each group a key concept, like functions
or algorithms and have lots of craft materials
00:45 - on hand for them to use.
00:48 - Have each group present their new unplugged
activity or even set aside another day to
00:52 - do a few of the student created activities.
00:56 - From everyone here at Code.org, we hope you've
had a TON of fun during this course.
01:01 - And whether your dream is to create the best
new app, use programming to help cure diseases,
01:06 - or you just want to be a stellar problem-solver,
this course was the first step in achieving
01:11 - those dreams.

Cleaned transcript:

So now it's time to step back and take a birds eye view of everything you've done in these past nineteen lessons. This is a great time to call out to students that what they've just done is a huge achievement. They've learned more over these lessons than most adults know about computer science. Discuss as a class or in small groups about their favorite lessons. Once you take a look back at everything you've learned, this is where your students' creativity can shine. Split them into groups and have them create an unplugged lesson of their own. Assign each group a key concept, like functions or algorithms and have lots of craft materials on hand for them to use. Have each group present their new unplugged activity or even set aside another day to do a few of the student created activities. From everyone here at Code.org, we hope you've had a TON of fun during this course. And whether your dream is to create the best new app, use programming to help cure diseases, or you just want to be a stellar problemsolver, this course was the first step in achieving those dreams.
