With timestamps:

00:05 - Building a website on its own is
pretty cool. Being able to share it with
00:09 - others and put it out into the world is
what inspires many people to learn how
00:12 - to develop websites in the first place.
00:15 - Web Lab allows you to share the websites you create.
00:19 - Click the "Share" button at the
top to see the unique URL for your website.
00:24 - You can send the link to a
friend so they can view it in any browser.
00:27 - Or you can even open it yourself
to see what the website looks like full size.
00:33 - If a friend sends you a website built
using Web Lab, there's an easy way to see the HTML they used to create it.
00:40 - Click on the gray bar at the bottom that says "Built on Code Studio" and then click "How It Works".
00:47 - This let's you view their code.
00:49 - If you'd like to build on someone else's
website, click "Remix" and you'll have a
00:53 - copy of your own that you can work on.
00:56 - If you're ever looking at a web page in Web Lab and you don't fully understand it,
01:00 - you can use the inspector tool to take a closer look.
01:04 - First, turn on the inspector and then hover over the elements of the web page in the preview area.
01:10 - As you hover, Web Lab will highlight the associated HTML code in the workspace.

Cleaned transcript:

Building a website on its own is pretty cool. Being able to share it with others and put it out into the world is what inspires many people to learn how to develop websites in the first place. Web Lab allows you to share the websites you create. Click the "Share" button at the top to see the unique URL for your website. You can send the link to a friend so they can view it in any browser. Or you can even open it yourself to see what the website looks like full size. If a friend sends you a website built using Web Lab, there's an easy way to see the HTML they used to create it. Click on the gray bar at the bottom that says "Built on Code Studio" and then click "How It Works". This let's you view their code. If you'd like to build on someone else's website, click "Remix" and you'll have a copy of your own that you can work on. If you're ever looking at a web page in Web Lab and you don't fully understand it, you can use the inspector tool to take a closer look. First, turn on the inspector and then hover over the elements of the web page in the preview area. As you hover, Web Lab will highlight the associated HTML code in the workspace.
