Hey there, techies! Welcome back to W3Schools.com. Today, we're diving into the rules of Python syntax! Let's get started. Quick recap on how to run Python on your own! You can execute Python code directly in the command line from the Python shell. Just type something like print("Hello, World!") and hit enter. Your message is displayed right away. You can also create a Python file with the .py extension and run it from the command line. You can name the file whatever you want, but it must end with .py Run the file with the python command and the file location. For our examples, we use our own Python code editor that you can run right from your browser. No installation required. That covers how to run python. Now, let's look at the rules for writing python. Starting with indentation In Python, indentation is crucial. In this example we have an if statement with a second line print("Five is greater than two!") The second line is indentated with 4 spaces. This indentation tells Python that the second line is part of the if statement block. If you skip the indentation, Python will throw a syntax error, or read them as 2 different statements. So, always remember to indent your code properly! You can use different numbers of spaces, but the standard is four. Just make sure you're consistent within the same block, because Python will throw an error if you use different numbers of spaces within the same block! Next up, variables! In Python, you create variables by assigning values to them. Like this Here, x is an integer variable with a value of 5, and y is a string variable with the value "Hello, World!". No need for a type declaration! Simple and easy! And don't forget about comments. They start with a hashtag and are great for documentation. When Python sees a hashtag on a line, it will read the rest of that line as a comment. So you can write notes to yourself or others in your code. Handy, right? Thanks for watching! Like and subscribe to get notified about our latest videos! For more coding tips and tricks, keep it locked right here on W3Schools.com! Don't forget to try out what you've learned in our interactive editor. Happy coding!