Hey you, what is up? This is Qazi from cleverprogrammer.com. In this Python tutorial for absolute beginners we are gonna cover everything from A to Z, step by step, and I'll also even show you some tips and tricks to become a freelancer. And I also have a special gift for you at the end of this video. (calm electronic music) We're gonna start with very simple basics, which is what the hell are variables in Python? So let's get started. Now, in terms of installing Python, there's something easier for you that I have and recommend. If you wanna install Python locally on your computer and you're crazy about that, this is the video to watch, but you don't need install Python. You can actually get started without it. So go to repl dot IT, REPL dot IT. I've also put this in the links below where you can click. I'm gonna give you access to all of my code as I code it and you can then go and make changes to it, whatever, so go to repl.it, you're gonna type, go here, type in "turtle" and then when you click on that we're gonna start coding, okay? So now basically what's going on is you have Python open, and we're going to talk about what variables are. Okay, so variables are very simple. I can say A is equal to five, and then if I do print(a), print just means show, and if I run this thing, it's gonna show me, in the console, it just says five, okay? That's all that it is. Now if I do B is equal to some string, like this, anything that's within quotes is just called a string, okay, it's just a fancy way of saying quote, alright. And now, if I do print(b) and I hit run, what do you get? You get "hello". So on the right hand side you can see what it's showing, so I'm like "this is my variable A, this is my variable B" and as you can imagine, the point of a variable is like so you also don't have to remember stuff, right? So for example, if you had a variable like credit_card, and it was some crazy number that you had to remember you don't have to remember anymore, you can just say print(credit_card) every time, hit run, and it would print out that number, so cool. Now, let's do something else because how I wanna teach you Python is in the fastest way possible and the most practical way possible and I also wanna show it to you in a way where you can actually learn visually, 'cause I think that's the best way to learn. So to get the visual step started, that's the reason why we're using something called turtle, okay, and I'm gonna name this ... "what are variables?" 'kay, plus "Turtle", okay, I'm just gonna name it that. Okay, cool. And now what we're gonna do is we're gonna do something cooler with variables. So let's say we say qazi_turtle is equal to turtle dot Turtle(), like that. Make sure you capitalize it in the right places, you put the dots in the right places, you put the parentheses in the right places, 'cause if you get that stuff wrong code doesn't work, code breaks down, you're talking to a genie with incredible power, right? So if you're talking to a genie with an incredible amount of power, you need to speak its language. So the computer is like a genie with unlimited power so we gotta speak to it and you gotta speak to it very precisely, which is very important. So, with that said, now the qazi_turtle is there, let's go qazi dot turtle ... qazi underscore turtle, my bad, qazi underscore turtle dot forward, and we're gonna say go forward by 100. Now I'm gonna click on "result" instead of "console" and I'm gonna run this program. Now that I am gonna do something with the turtle, turtle is gonna be this graphical way for us to learn, so at the top we have to write something called "import turtle", okay, this is very important. Now that we do this, this code will work. I'll say qazi underscore turtle, and how I'm autocompleting it is when it pops up I just hit tab, it autocompletes it. And I'll do turtle dot forward 100, I'll hit enter, and you can see the turtle just moved forward, right? The turtle goes like uh, uh, uh when I do turtle dot forward 100. Now, what if I did turtle dot right 90 degrees, okay. So turtle dot right, and I do 90 degrees, watch what's gonna happen. The turtle's gonna move forward and then turn. So what did it do, it went eh, eh, eh, eh ... and then it goes like this, alright? That's what you're tryna do, you're tryna make it turn 90 degrees. And now the cool thing is that I can just go like this, like this, hit enter, like this, and now the turtle, what did it just do? What, mm, mm, mm, mm, turns around, and goes mm, mm, mm, mm. Now if I wanna make a square, I give you that as a challenge to do. That's a challenge for you to do right now, pause the video and see if you can make it a square, a full square. Alright, now unpause the video and let's go. So basically all I have to do, my friend, is I copy this guy, hit paste, I run it again, and now the turtle goes bop bop bop bop, it turns around, and goes pop, pop, pop, pop, it turns to the right again, and it goes pop, pop, pop, pop 100, okay? So what are we gonna do? We're gonna repeat that same step one more time, I'm just gonna go ahead and paste that line of code twice again, and watch what happens. Boom, boom, boom, boom, and the square has been completed. How fricking cool is that? So not only have you learned what variables are, you have also gotten started to learn Python visually and that's gonna be the really important fundamental building blocks for when we learn if else statements, and when we learn functions, and when we learn all this other advanced stuff, what's gonna be super cool and super dope is that we're gonna be learning it all visually so if you wanna make 10 squares, we'll just ride this loop de loop, and it'll make 10 squares in a row, right, and that's gonna be pretty awesome. I'm excited for you. I do wanna let you know that I'm gonna have a course coming out called How to Automate Stuff with Python, so that's gonna into all the basics of Python, but much more than the basics, it's gonna teach you how to automate stuff, it's gonna teach you web scraping, it's gonna teach you some basic data analysis, but the most important thing it's gonna show you is how you can go from complete zero to then getting closer to making your first $1000 with Python and having the skill set. So if you're interested in that course, when it's gonna be coming up, just click on one of the description in the link below and you can actually go sign up on the waiting list so when it's out you're the first one to know and, as a matter of fact, once you sign up for it I'm gonna give you access to an epic threepart free, completely free masterclass that's unbelievable, that's gonna blow your mind, and really help you accelerate on your path to becoming a developer and even working your way to a sixfigure developer. Alright, again, thank you so much for watching this video. In the next video we're gonna go deeper, we're gonna have more fun. As always, I love your face and I'll see you in the next video. (calm rap music)