Welcome back to Learn Python programming for complete and absolute beginners. The 2019 version. This is the most updated course. So thank you guys for jumping in here. Now, what we're gonna do is, we're just gonna go to the next step, alright? The next step is, I'm gonna show you how functions work. It's gonna be super simple to understand. (upbeat music) You know how variables are used to remember certain things, like a credit card number, what's really cool is you can use functions to remember lines of code. So for example, this over here right, what do all of these lines of code combined do? When I run this program, if you notice the lines I'm highlighting, from 13 to 20, well what are they really doing, right? What they're actually doing is making a square. So, I'm gonna write something called a comment. Alright, comment is something the computer code doesn't care about. For example, let's say I write something like this right, my code will break. If I go to the consol, it gives me an error. It says name comment not defined. Everything breaks. But, if I actually put a little hashtag here, it knows it's for humans and it won't break my code. My turtle square still gets made. So I'm gonna make a comment and my comment is just gonna say, this is a square, okay? Now if I run this, it'll make a square and anybody else who is reading your code will go, oh I understand what this piece of code does. But what would be really cool is, if you wanted to make another square, What would you have to do? You would have to copy all of this and then paste it here again and then run the code. But that's not such a cool way to do that. So, what we're gonna do is, do a cooler way of doing it. So we're gonna create something called a function, alright? So, I'm gonna go define and I'm gonna call this function a square and we're gonna hit enter like this. Now, there's four spaces here, okay? which you need to pay attention to. When I hit enter, it's indented. And indentation is really important because all of this code is part of this function, okay? That's the idea. And now, literally, what I can do is I can actually copy this entire square code and paste it in here and I can certainly remove it from there, okay? Make sure you highlight all of this and hit tab to indent it so it's all part of this function. Okay, it's all a part of that. For functions, to make them show up, you have to call the function, just like you have to call the variable. So here, we just defined the function, but now if I do, square like that. Alright, so we have square. Now when I run it, if we go to results, Let's go to, oh whoops, we misspelled it again. Let's go square, man that's bad. Alright, so now that we've got square, you can see that the square actually goes and gets made. So now what's really cool is every time I just say square, it'll make that square okay? So for example, I can say square and then I can say turtle.forward(300). So what it's gonna do, it's gonna make the square, and then it's gonna walk forward by 300 and now I can just say square like this and hit enter, alright? So, now it's gonna make a square, walk over 300 and then make, essentially, another square. Oh, it's starting that square from the start, which is not what we want. Because we don't want a new turtle to be made every time we run this code. We basically, just want the same turtle who keeps making squares. First thing we're gonna do is we don't want the turtle to keep being made over and over again. We're gonna pop that qazi_turtle all the way at the top, okay? And then what we're gonna do, is we're gonna say, qazi_turtle.forward and then we're gonna say by 100, okay? Now, when I run this, check it out, it makes a square and then qazi is gonna go 100 forward. Well, what we can do is make it, let's say, 200 forward. So, it should make a square, and then it should sprint 200 forward and now what we can do is basically make another square like this and hit enter. So now it should go make a square, go 200 forward, and then make another square. It kinda looks like glasses if you look at it sideways. That's what really cool about leveraging functions because it makes it easier to recall your code. It makes it really easy to understand your code and read for people because if you had those eight lines of code that were really repetitive, it just kept saying turtle.forward(100), turtle.right(90), and it kept doing that. Well, now you defined it in one spot and you can just keep referring to it. So functions are super powerful, super cool and you can do a lot of things with them that are much more complicated than what I'm showing you. But simplicity is very important when you're learning at the start. So with that said, thank you so much for watching. More videos are gonna be coming out that are gonna be teaching you all of this. If you haven't already, How to automate stuff course will be opening up soon. So, in the description below, sign up to that. Lastly, I have all your notes in this one called How do functions work? So, this is the URL for it, just in case. And if you go to it, then you can have access to all of my code. You can just run it, use it however you want and it's also gonna be in the descriptions below so you can leverage it. Okay, with that said, thank you so much for watching. I love your face and I'll see you in the next video. (hip hop music)