Hey, welcome back to Python tutorial for absolute beginners. In this video we're gonna be talking about how to use if else statements with Python. So thank you for coming back. Let's pick it up right where we left off. (hip hop music) So in the last video we talked about like, yo, how do we use functions? And we learned, okay, we can make a square, but now, how do we use if else statements and add some kind of conditionals? Okay, so what we can say is if elephant body weight or elephant weight is greater than ant weight, then, you know, make a square. Okay, so what we're gonna do is I'm gonna have a elephant_weight, and I don't know how much they weigh at the top of my head. I'll just write 3,000. I imagine 3,000 pounds, if they're probably less or more. I don't know. Then I'll have a ant_weight, and ant_weight will be like, let's say, hm, I was gonna say 20, but they're not 20 pounds. Let's say 0.1 pounds. I don't know how much they are. So, cool. We got elephant_weight, and we got ant_weight. Now, we'll say, If elephant_weight is greater than ant_weight, then make a square, alright? By the way, we're gonna comment these out, so these lines don't work, just to show you what that looks like. I'll delete these two lines for just a second, I'll hit enter, and you'll see, that the result, nothing actually happened, and that's kinda what we want right now. With that said, I'm gonna move forward and I'll go like this, okay? So if elephant_weight is greater than ant_weight, then make a square. Just logically thinking about this, what do you think should? Do you think it will make a square, or will it not make a square? Take three seconds to, three, two, one. Good job, you're right, it will make a square because elephant_weight is greater than ant_weight. Okay so I'll run this, and I'll break down actually what's happening behind the scenes. For this statement to run, this statement must evaluate to a true statement. We're gonna speak more on boolean logic later, but everything must evaluate to true or false. So when you say 3,000 is greater than 0.1, it will return to you an answer. So for example, I will comment these out and I will say, comment this out and I'll say, 3,000 is greater than 0.1, and I'll say print. So it prints a result of it, and I'll go to console, and console it says true. Now if I do 3,000 is less than 0.1, it will say false. It evaluates to false, so if this evaluates to, so going back to our example, if this part turns out to be true, then this part runs, the square runs. So in other words, if I change this to true and I run it, then the square will run, but if I change this part to false like so, like this, then it won't run. So either you can have true, or you can have false, those are the two things you can have. So what we're tryna do is make it so that it ends up, the statement gets evaluated and then something happens. So if elephant_weight is greater than ant_weight which is true, then it makes a square, but what we can say is, otherwise don't make square and instead just do qazi_turtle.forward(100). Something like that, just go forward 100 if that's not the case, but as you can see elephant_weight is greater so it's gonna still make a square, but what if I flippity flip this? What if I say, elephant_weight is less than ant_weight? Meaning ant_weight is greater than elephant_weight, what will happen if I run this? Well, which you'll see is gonna happen is that instead of running this statement over here, it's actually gonna run the else statement. Now where this could be useful, is you could say something like if you're making a IG clone later at some point you can say, if user has a profile picture then show their profile picture. If user does not have a profile picture, you can say something like, then show the anonymous picture icon. That's what happens when you go to Facebook or whatever. You can say if the login credential of the user on Facebook is accurate, then let them log in. If not, say incorrect password and have them try again. So those are some real world examples of how if else statements are used everywhere, but what I gave you are some simple examples you can use right now. The link to this code, by the way, you can access this code right away and if I hit share, there's this link, and this link you can copy from the description below, you can also just paste it in like how I'm showing here, and once you hit enter you can play around with this code, do whatever you want. This is gonna be the best way for you to learn and have access to it, and I always suggest just use Replit, that way you don't even have to install Python and make it work, but if you wanna install Python, I (lip smacking) have a video you can watch, okay? So with that said, thank you so much for watching at this point, please subscribe to the channel and hit the bell notifications. It really helps out the channel, but more importantly for you it's really amazing, is because any types of tips, tricks, or motivational tips I'm bringing out for Python developers, or how to make a higher income. Go from low, high five figure income to six figure income, you'll be able to learn that, so subscribe to the channel 'cause I'm bringing the fucking heat this year, I'm excited. Also, like the video if you liked it, or dislike the video if you didn't like it, and lastly I do wanna say that my new course "How to Automate Stuff with Python" will be coming out, and I'm really freakin' excited for that and that will teach you all the nuts and bolts, all of this, then some, project based, and most importantly, it'll show you how you can start freelancing and earning an income with coding, that's always my goal for everybody on this channel. So you can pop in your email below, I'll send you like a free masterclass or whatever, and you'll be the first one to know when it opens up. With that said, I love your face as always, this is Qazi and in the next tutorial video, I'll see you in the next video. ♪ Codin' all day, man. Know I'm sayin'? ♪ ♪ Codin' all day, man. Know I'm sayin'? ♪ ♪ Codin' all day, man. Know I'm sayin'? ♪ ♪ Codin' all day, man. Know I'm sayin'? ♪ ♪ I've been codin' way too damn long ♪ ♪ Codin' way too damn long ♪ ♪ Codin' way too damn long ♪