Hey you! Welcome back to Learn Python Programming for complete beginners in 2019, the latest edition. We're gonna talk about while loops, okay, and basically while loops are different kinds of loops but loops in programming are, if you keep doing stuff over and over again without having to write code over and over again. (heavy beat music) In the next video we're gonna talk about something called for loops, in this video we're gonna talk about something called while loops, okay, so while loops, you don't know when something is gonna to end, that's when you use while loops for, for example, okay, I don't know how many pushups I can do, so I can write a while loop and I can say something like, while Qazi not tired, keep doing pushups. Basically, I can like go like this, and just basically keep going right, this is like a while loop, like if I'm doing pushups right. This is part of a while loop. I don't know how many, I stop, okay while loop is over. Over. So basically it's something like, I would write in code, While Qazi not tired, keep going, and then when Qazi tired, stop. What might that look like, right? And I can go while qazi_turtle, let's say Qazi is equal to happy, okay? So while Qazi is happy, keep making the turtle go forward, and then as soon as Qazi is sad, stop the turtle from going forward, okay? So while Qazi equal equal happy, right, then I can say turtle, Qazi, sorry, underscore turtle, dot forward by, let's say ten. Okay so keep going. Man I'm pretty much gonna comment out everything else because I'm not gonna be using it right now. So let's run this code and let's see what it does. It just keeps going, unless I stop it, so I have to click stop, otherwise the while loop will run infinitely and I'm gonna run into something called infinite loop. So let me try that again, if I run it again you can see it just keeps going, keeps going. I have to stop it, otherwise my computer is gonna crash, but if I change this to Qazi is sad, and I run it, it's not gonna to run it, it has stop because it goes well check if Qazi equal equal sad, and this statement is either going to evaluate to true or false, and because it evaluated it false, because Qazi is not sad, Qazi it says is happy right here. It goes "Oh, I'm sorry, I don't know what the hell "you're talking about" and two equals sign means that you're checking something with another thing. So for example, let me hit comment on this, comment on this, and comment on this. If I do five equal equal five, it's gonna say and I go to console and I run this, what is it gonna to say? Nothing, because I have to write print, so let me make sure I write print and I run it and you can see over here, it says true, alright ? So that is true. This is called the equality operator, it's checking between two things. This is the assignment operator, so if I do this, this will give me an error because it'll say you can't assign five to five, that's an error, but I can do a is equal to five, but I can't say five is equal to five but I can check if five is equal to five, just like this is an operator for checking stuff as well. Like is five greater than five? Is five equal to five? Is five less than five? So on and so forth, we're gonna go more into this later, but this is an example of a while loop, it's something that can keep going unless the condition changes, unless the condition changes. And there's a way to stop the while loop as well, you can write a statement like break and break out of it, but that's something I'm gonna show you guys later. Now, I'm going to keep the while loop part simple because the next part I'm gonna to show you is gonna be why you should be using for loops majority of the times, almost all of the times, and while loops a lot less. You should really be using while loops if you don't know when something is gonna end. So an example of that would be, you know I told this in one of my courses, basically I said, there was this one time where I was on an airplane and I was sitting next to this girl, and I was like what's the best way to pass time, so I created this game called tictactoe, and I thought okay, how can we keep playing until it ends because every time we would play the game of tictactoe or Rock Paper Scissors, it would come to an end and then I have to run the program all over again, so I wanted to do something where it kept the game going until I specifically said, quit the game. So this way, every time we would finish a game Rock Paper Scissors, it would just start to the next one, next one, until I hit Q, so for that because I don't know how long we're gonna keep playing, we can keep playing for ten minutes, thirty minutes, we ended up playing a hundred games, so for that it was really useful to wrap an entire game in a while loop, so the game can just keep playing over and over again. I had the whole thing in a while loop so the game can actually keep playing over and over again. That was the really awesome part about it and that's how you use while loops in real life, and in this video I just gave you a little example of it and in the next video we're going to cover for loops. With that said, thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed this video, please give it a like, really helps out the channel. Subscribe to the channel, hit the bell notification so all the upcoming new videos come straight to you, come straight to your face. You're gonna enjoy them. You're gonna love them. As always, I love your face and I'll see you in the next video.