Hey you, welcome to learn Python programming for absolute beginners in 2019. In this video, we're gonna be talking about how to use for loops with Python. Let's jump right into it. (bass thumping beat) So basically, for loops, the idea is you know exactly how many times you're gonna do something. Right now, first of all, let's start off by commenting some of these stuff out. And, um, let's do something like this. For i in range five, print i. 'Kay. And if a run this in the console, you'll see it'll print zero, one, two, three, four. Okay? So it'll basically start from the beginning, from zero go all the way to four. Because when you say five, coding in Python, (stuttering) computer starts counting from zero. So if I said that ten here, it'll go only up to nine. Okay? And, uh, that's the power of a for loop. We're telling it how many times to go. Now, what I can do is I can say for i in range ten, okay? Or I can say for count, and then I just have to change this i here to count as well. I could say in range ten, basically I'm saying, do something ten times, okay? That's all I'm saying here. Do something ten times. What if wanna make a square ten times or what if I wanna make a, a square two times? I can say two here, and then run that function. Remove my print statement, like this. And hit Run, and then result. It'll make a square, and then you can see it goes and makes another square immediately. So that's pretty cool. 'Kay? If I wanted to do it three times, I'll just do for count and range three, do it three times. So let's see what happens. Holy shit, that's pretty cool, huh. Let's do it four times, and let's see what we get. I mean, this is exciting. And I think in turtle we can improve its uh, we can increase its speed, too. So, wow. We just made a window. Uh, let's go here. I think there's something called turtle.speed or something. So, let's do, err, a speed one hundred. I don't know if that works. There we go it worked, okay? Let's do a 50. Much faster. 30. Cool. I think if you keep it at 15 that should be fine, 'coz that's pretty fast. But it still lets you see what is going on. So now, we got, the turtle. We've changed its speed, and because of a for loop, we can make it do something however many times we want. So that's the cool thing about a for loop. Most of the times, you're gonna be using a for loop. Alright? That makes things easier for you. If I wanted to do something more, again, I would use a for loop. So my question to you would be, what if you wanted to make, you know, four squares or 10 squares, could you do that? Could you try and I challenge you to do this. Could you try to make another shape instead of a square? But have it be done a different number of times. Uheight number of times, eight times. Alright? Give that a try. And I hope that's gonna be exciting for you. So with that said, thank you for watching this video. This was just a basic introduction to how for loops work. With that said, please like the video if you enjoyed it. Click the Subscribe button because we're gonna be dropping a lot more epic stuff on this channel. Coding tips, tricks, tutorials, but also lots of freelancing tips, as well, for Python. Other than that, thank you so much for watching. I love your face off, subscribe to the channel, and as always, I'll see you in the next video. (rap music playing)