Hey, whats up guys, Aaron here from Clever Programmer, and today I just wanna make a really, really quick video, about primitive data types in Python. So let's get started. (lovely hiphop music beats) Alright, so primitive data types, what the heck does that even mean? So, first of all, there's a thing called data types in Python, which is just a way, that the computer can understand data. So there's different types of data that the computer needs, like it needs numbers for math, it needs sentences to display results to the screen, and it needs a couple other things, like there's a long list, but, there are four primitive data types, that I wanna go over, okay, four that come packaged with Python, immediately. They're called primitive because they're the most primitive, like elementary, base level kind of data types that you can use, like literally just numbers, like the number one, the number two, the number 3.5, or the word 'hello' or something like that, just something very, very basic, there's not like a crazy amount of stuff in there, okay? And then now one more called Boolean, which sounds really weird, sounds kind of funny, Boolean, boolean, but let me just type these out, so you can see. So there are, first of all, there's numbers, I said there's four types, so there's numbers, this is actually split into integers, okay? Then there's floats, which is just short for floating point numbers, and floating point numbers are just decimal numbers, because of the decimal point floats around, that's why they're called floats, a little bit weird, and then there are strings, which are just sentences, okay? And then, then there are Booleans, which are just a yes, no kind of thing, true or false. So those are the four primitive data types, I'm just gonna go over this, so integers are gonna be, one, two, three, four, five, you can just start doing math of these, like one plus one equals two and whatnot, your floating numbers, so this is like 2.5, negative 0.3778, like numbers like those, like very, very exact numbers, and then you have strings, so strings are sets of just like sentences, but they're always enclosed in quotation marks, that's all you need to know for right now, okay? Quotation marks, so you have like, "yo, how's it going," like that, just as sentence, but it's enclosed in quotation marks, so, it's a little bit the distinction little weird, I'm actually gonna have a video that explains strings more, but, if you have "4" like this, this is not a number, this is a string, okay? So, this is a string, that's what you've to know, it has double quotation marks, or single quotation marks, it's just a string, that's all you need to know, when you're actually coding on the computer, just know, those are strings, and then Booleans, last are just like this, you only have two options, true and false, just like that, and now what these are, is they just evaluate to, or that, that was a big word, well, what they are is, it just allows us to be like, okay, should I run this chunk of code? Yes or no? Should I run this chunk of code? Yes or no? And that's why Boolean, you need a yes no kind of scheme, in coding, instead of just numbers, okay? So that's all everything. So a string can be anything you want, floats can be every number that exists, integers, every number that exists, but Booleans can only be true or false, okay? And these are the four main primitive data types in Python, that's it for this video guys, I'll be going into more detail on Python, in the next few videos, but thank you for watching, and yeah, stay tuned, I'll see you next time. (lovely hiphop music beats) (lovely hiphop music beats) (lovely hiphop music beats)