Hey, what's up you guys? Aaron here from Clever Programmer, and today I just want to explain strings a little bit. It's a data type in Python, and yeah, let's get started. (slow electronic music) Alright so strings, what the heck are strings in Python? Well, I mentioned this in a previous video about data types. All I said was that strings are just things on the screen that are enclosed in quotation marks, okay? So let's just type S for a string. So anything in here, like hello maam okay. Anything enclosed in quotation marks here is considered a string, that's about all I said in the previous video. But what I actually wanna go through is the distinction between this and the integers and floats and other data types. So a string literally is just whatever is typed on the screen, it is exactly that okay? Like the string is literally that data. It is that sentence there. A good way to think of a string is just a sentence, it's a string of any characters, numbers and symbols okay, in a sentence, so you can have anything you want there as long as you want, it can be empty, it can have one character, it can have an entire novel, an entire ebook in there, it is just considered one string, and it is its own data type because it is considered one whole. It's that entire sentence together is the thing that I'm putting into this variable S here as you can see. That entire thing is there, and it's just, it is what it is, it's a little bit hard to explain, but it's just exactly that. So you can move this around, you can print S as you can see if I run this then hello maam pops up just like that because this stuck together as a whole. And yeah pretty much, you can also index into this. So let's say I want to print S, so those little bracket here, what this means is I'm going to index into S, so if this is following S and I put a number in here, this is just going to give us a little part of the string. So this here, we start at zero, we don't start at one in programming, so we start at zero, this would actually just give us H. If I put in a one, it would actually give us E. So you're actually able to read different parts of the string. You can actually read different ranges in the string too, but I'm gonna explain that at a later date and different video, it's called slicing. If you're interested in that, to get something to get a substring, if your substring is just a small part of a longer string, then you can look that up, but I'll have a video coming out on that going really really in depth with that later if you just want to wait for that. But yeah, that's pretty much strings. There is a lot of different function of the strings you can call to. I'll also be going over those in future videos. But pretty much all you need to know is that a string is just something enclosed in quotation marks. You can also use single quotes. I forgot to mention that if I didn't already say that, just like that, that'll work equally as well. But yeah, a string is just that, it's just a sentence. A sentence that is together, and that's the data type. Thank you for watching you guys, I'll see you in the next video. (slow electronic music)