How much do you guys think a programmer makes? One million dollars? Hey guys, what is up, this is Qazi from cleverprogrammer.com and you are watching Interview Questions. So today we decided to go down to a mall and ask a bunch of people what they think computer programming is and first, I want you to take a look at their responses and afterwards, we're gonna go on to actually answer and address most of these questions, starting with the most important question, what is computer programming? We are here at Woodfield Mall. And we're gonna take you on the ride with us so let's get going, alright? (gentle upbeat music) Hey everyone, my name is Tenzin from developertenzin.com. Do you guys know what computer programming is? It's where you put all the brains inside the box. I mean, I don't exactly, but the whole software and stuff is done by coding, so, numbers and letters. The engineer. Computer programmer makes codes for different computer programs to operate systems on a computer. How things work, like making something work, function correctly? Essentially, at its very core, it's simply a way to digitize your ideas. This idea can be related to a field in biology related to a medical field. I wanna go into the medical field. Even in a lot of biology research, they can sometimes use computer programming. Yeah, they do. To an engineering field, or it could be related to whatever the heck you want it to be related to. I wanna teach digital media, so there's probably some coding involved in that. Probably video game design. Sounds like a lot of coding there, or no? A lot, yeah, definitely a lot. Now let's talk about why it might be useful to you. Imagine you were trying to build a video game and you wanted to put it on an interactive website. Using programming, you could build your very own game that nobody has built in the very specific way that you want it built, and you could put it on your very own interactive, fun website. Now let's talk about maybe more practical ways for some of you people who are like, "I wanna make that money," right? Business intelligence, it helps you make better and more informed decisions not just based on your intuition, sometimes intuitions are good, but you need it backed up by evidence and data, which programming will allow you to do, and the field of data science and data analytics is all based on computer programming. It helps you take a lot of these features that you can't process all at once and let's the computer decide for you what decisions to make, how powerful is that? And you can generate more leads and more money for your business. But Qazi, why do I need to have myself learn how to program, why can't I just have anybody else digitize my idea for me? Imagine Mark Zuckerberg. The idea, the specific idea that Mark Zuckerberg had, a lot of other people had similar ideas how to create social media, but his idea was the key, so a lot of you folks, who have these brilliant ideas, you wanna be able to execute them. So yes, you can hire somebody to do it for you, but I promise you it's not gonna be as good as if you did it yourself. If those weren't reasons enough for you, let's talk about instant scalability. Any idea that you digitize and that you create on your own, you can scale it infinitely. Imagine you create an app that solves some kind of problem. Maybe it's a fitnessrelated issue or a financerelated issue like a budgeting app or like a working out app, all of a sudden with the click of a button, thousands and millions of people are having that problem solved 'cause they're able to download your app or go on your website and use what you've created. What other medium allows you to scale at that level and so fast? There are not many that I can think of. Like, when you think of a computer programmer, what do they look like to you and what do you imagine in your mind? An overlysmart person dressed in skinny jeans and a tight buttonup shirt. Okay. Probably just an average guy, probably wears glasses. Like this guy. Like that guy, okay? Yeah, yeah. Okay, pretty shirt, welldressed, skinny pants and with some dress shoes on, brown dress shoes. You have to look nice, yeah. Right, right, right. I just imagine a nerdy guy at a computer just typing, I don't know. That's funny, my husband owns his own computer business but he just wears like a polo shirt and nice shorts or pants. I met a lot of computer programmers, so they're actually not close to the stereotypes at all, like they were nice suits and stuff, welloff men. Alright, now let's talk about the job market. Okay so, so far you've been following me along, you're like, "This is great, Qazi, I wanna do this!" Whatever this very thing is, so let me give you a little bit about what kind of jobs you can get. The job market for a computer programmer looks pretty fantastic. Now, don't get me confused by thinking that it's instantly easy to become a programmer, it's not, I personally, myself, have failed a tremendous amount of times, you guys, while I was trying to become a computer programmer, and even to this day, I fail over and over again. Anything that has a true value, you know from personal experience that it's hard. There are 1.4 million job openings for computer programming every single year, however, the number of college computer science graduates is only 400,000, which means money money for you. How does it translate to that? There's a one million people per year window open just for you. Compared to all other jobs or most other jobs, the job of software technology is growing at a 17% rate every single year. So the growth, the projected outlook, all the way up to 2024 is only growing. Now let's talk about the money you can make from computer programming. What do you think computer programmers make annually? Okay I know that women make a lot more money in the field because they don't have a lot of women in the field right now, so I'd say maybe like 70, starting maybe 60, I don't know. So if you're a girl, you know what you need to start doing. 80,000. Probably like 70 to 90,000. Well a lot, it's a really good skill to have. I'm guessing around 50,000, maybe more. $50,000. 92. 92, very specific. So at this point, you're like, "Oh yeah, I'm excited." So let's talk about it. 2015 statistics show that the average median salary is $100,490. That is a pretty good median salary, right? Not many jobs might start off with that. Glassdoor.com that say if you look at a specific area like Chicago, the median salary might be $85,000, give or take. Now why is the range so different, it depends on where you live. If you live in the Silicon Valley, the heart of technology, you are going to be getting paid more for the jobs, most of the times. If you're living in other places, like Chicago, it might be a little bit less than the top, the $100,000 that you could potentially be making. Why you might actually really enjoy your job more than just the money is the amount of impact that you're making. Most of the programmers are able to work either from their office or remotely. This means you get to spend more time with your family, you get to spend more time with your friends. So if you're working with, let's say, a company like Microsoft, you're effecting and influencing the lives of millions of people. So your role in the society is very important and as one of my really smart friends once said, "Your rewards in life are exactly proportional, "no less and no more, than the contribution "you make in your society." Did you let that sink in? Good. Because programming allows you to make a tremendous amount of contribution to the society, simply 'cause it lets you scale instantly, so that great amazing idea that you had, yeah, now everybody is using it and it's changing their lives. Okay guys, so at this point, I think that hopefully this video has blown your brains to bits and you're like, "This is fantastic, "What can I do to get started?" You're looking for that signup button for success. Unfortunately, I don't have a signup button for success but I do have a button to subscribe, so click that, stay tuned for my videos because not only will I make videos based on entertainment and how fun programming is, but a lot of them are based on tutorials so watching these tutorials, you yourself can learn how to program and how to get started in it and if you're worried and you're not ready to make that dip into majoring in computer science and paying a heck of a lot of money for something that you can maybe learn on your own or at least get your feet wet and see what it's about, check out my tutorials, if you don't like it, well just stop watching the video and leave the channel, it's as simple as that, right? But if you do like it, stay by, watch more videos, you're welcome to be here, it's mi casa, su casa, right? My house is your house, as they say in Spanish. Anyways, it's been really exciting, guys, thank you so much for watching this video, please like it if you liked it, other than that, I love every one of you guys, I will see you in the next video. Boom! Do you enjoy it or is it something that you're just like, "Meh, it's okay." No enjoying it. You don't enjoy it? Yes, no. Are you okay with this being on YouTube? Yeah yeah, that's fine. Yeah definitely. Can I put this on YouTube? Okay, yes. Last question, very important, can we put this on YouTube? Most certainly. Yes. And this last thing, is this okay if we choose to put it on YouTube? Go for it. Is this okay if we put this on YouTube? Yes, I am fine. Can we put that on YouTube? Yeah, yes. Amazing, Ruby, nice to meet you. Where do I find you guys? The channel name is called cleverprogrammer.com.