What's up, guys. This is Qazi from cleverprogrammer.com. Welcome to the live stream of Ask Me Stuff with Qazi. The main reason I'm actually doing this live stream is I wanted to just check out this new tripod thing I got for my phone, but I was like why not just make it fun and bring a lot of value to you guys, an insane amount? So if you guys ask me awesome questions, I'll just jump in, dive in, and we'll just start going hard answering your questions. So use this time, take advantage of this time, leverage it, and I will give you my best, (fist thuds) but let's just start going. (fingers snapping) I'm excited. Jeremiah asks, when did you first start programming? I started programming, the first time I programmed ever when I was 18, and I did some stuff with it. And then I quit, 'cause I got stuck in problems, and I stopped, so there you go. Where to start programming by GAMING ORIGINS. Welcome, GAMING ORIGINS. How you're doing, my friend? You can start programming as early as you want. Dima says, what's the best site to learn programming if I want to learn machine learning, and if I have no experience? Dima, that's a really good question. I always go to Udacity to learn stuff first. I love Udacity, go there. And then go to Coursera, and stuff. Rubessh asks, how much do you earn? I was making $104,000 a year as a developer, then I scaled it to about 150 as a freelancer. Can I learn Python through smart, and now I run a business, so I make fuckton more than that. Can I learn Python through smartphone? Absolutely, you can, you can. Wiilka asks, what courses I have to take when I want to become web developer and designer? Again, look at Udacity, look at Coursera. Would you ever hang out with subs? I would love to. If you are in LA or San Diego, I would love to hang out with you. What are classes in Python? Those are objectoriented programming, so learn that. Michael says, I would love for you to be my mentor. Awesome, I'd love to be your mentor. Look into our Profitable Shortcut program. Can I learn the core of Django in one month? Yes, you can. You can learn that in less than one month if you just go hard at it. (hands slap) And The Profitable Programmer course will teach you. Take a look at that course. To become a web developer, which is the fla la la la la la? Aaron, if you can pull up these questions, then I can actually see them. 'Cause right now, they're vanishing at a speed of light. Okay, cool. Wait. Let me get the, this kinda dies. All right, I got a laptop. I got your guys' questions all the way right here, and I can answer them. I also wanna just talk about everybody who joined our Earn $1K with Python program, guys, I want you to please be a little patient in that program. We had about roughly 500 students join. So we're actually looking, we're hiring fulltime customer support, so we can actually give you faster responses. (fingers snapping) So if you're not getting responses to certain things, just know that our team is trying as hard as possible. Aaron, come over here. This guy has been literally not getting sleep, and working his ass off. Yeah, pretty much. Missing his gym. Yeah. So you gotta get back to gym, bro. (Aaron laughs) Okay? Yeah, I will tomorrow. So he has to do that. But just know that we're there for you. We're doing everything we can. And we'll help you out and get back to you as fast as possible. All right, now let's see. Brandon says, wait, how can we get you as a mentor? This is shaking, about to fall, be careful. [Aaron] Sorry. Thank you, bro. Again, look into our program called Profitable Shortcut. Send us a email about it, and we can tell you about how you can potentially have me as your mentor. All right, let's see. Kasi asks, how long should I code in a day? I would say about two to three hours, if not more. I was coding about 15 hours a day, but that's also 'cause I didn't have a life. So you can make that decision on your own. These are really good, quality questions, guys. I'm fucking loving these. So please keep asking questions like these, and I will just keep going in on all of them, and I will be providing you with a lot of value, and I'll go fast, okay? (fingers snapping) So I love this when you guys ask really thoughtful questions, so thank you for that. I really appreciate it. Okay, what courses I have to take to become a web developer? Wiilka, I would say learn the basics of a language. So if it's Python, learn the basics of Python, then learn a framework like Django, so go through a Django course, and you will be on your way to become a web developer, all right? Obviously, there's other stuff you have to learn, too, HTML, CSS, and all that. Again, everything we cover in Profitable Programmer, so that's something you can email us about qazi@cle. Oh, no, don't email that one, 'cause that's mine, and I don't check it. Email support@cleverprogrammer.com. That's what the entire team checks, and we'll respond to you. Goldenhoney says, to become a web developer, which language of the three languages should be learned first? So I don't know which three languages you're talking about, Goldenhoney, but you should learn definitely a back end language, so whether it's Python or JavaScript. You should learn HTML, you should learn CSS. Those aren't really programming languages, but you should still learn HTML, CSS. All right. Pramila asks, how much time does it take to learn Python? Languages can take, to learn the basics, it should take you less than a month if you actually go into it. Can you get a job in Silicon Valley without a degree, Christine asks, Christine Smith. Absolutely, you can get a job without getting a degree. There are tons of people who have jobs in places like Silicon Valley without having a degree. We're actually gonna be interviewing somebody as well who got a job at Google, I think without getting a degree, so that's also gonna be really awesome. Michael, okay. What other questions do we have? Aditya says, I want Earn $1K course. That course is gonna be, it's not available anymore, guys. If you missed your chance to get it, you can get on the wait list for it. But the course is not gonna be open until a few months from now. Also, anybody who is in the Earn $1K course, we're adding more stuff to it. So we're gonna keep adding more and more stuff to it, and if you're in that course already, you're just gonna get that stuff for free as our gift to you. So that's what we did in The Profitable Programmer as well. We added so many new modules, and all that stuff came to everybody who had joined for free. And then when we increase the price of the course, it didn't affect the people who were already in. So if you're in Earn $1K, relax, enjoy, eat some popcorn, sit back, watch a movie. And in the meantime, my boy, Aaron, and I are putting together a brandnew Python tutorial in there as well for you. Okay, blah blah blah, let's see. How do you feel about the future? Dima, I answered one of your questions, so I'm gonna come back to you after. Brandon says, how can we get you to be our mentor? Brandon, I think I've answered it, but definitely email us about and ask in the headline, the subject line, about Profitable Shortcut. (sighs) Oscar says, I'm starting to use UiPath, and noticed that default regular expressions are based on Virtual Basic, VB. Would it be better to add Python addon, and use it instead? Yes, Python is always gonna make your life easier. So learn regular expressions with Python. Dendi asks... Oh, ARAVINDH asks, why can't you post your gym workouts on YouTube? Let's fuckin' do it. [Aaron] (laughs) All right, I'm down. If you guys want it, let's do it. Guys, I've been getting more jacked. [Aaron] Yeah, I've been getting my ass beat. (Aaron laughs) Mm. Mm, mm, mm, mm, mm. Yeah, (laughs) this guy's been getting his ass beat. I've been practicing on him, which is awesome. [Aaron] (laughs) For you. Yeah, all for you, we'll record that content, and put it on as well. I've been really enjoying. I've been improving in boxing a lot. I was really sucky at it. Now, I'm a little bit better. And yeah, it's been a fun journey. I'm competing in my first powerlifting competition May 25th. So if any of you are really good at powerlifting, and working out, and all that, feel free to message me on Instagram or wherever, and I could use your guidance on nutrition, or lifting, or any of those things, okay? So that would be really cool. EpicodeCFK asks, how do deal with people trying to discourage you? You have asked the right person. (chuckles) Good question. (Aaron chuckles) Lately, people have been, not just lately, but I've went through so many of my own mental and identity crisis. Even last year, I had this breakdown randomly where I was walking. It was super cold in Chicago, and I remember I just got out of my car, and I started walking in like negative 10 degrees or something, all right? It was freezing. And I took my jacket off. And I walked for probably a mile, and I was shivering, and I was so cold. And I had this weird pit in my stomach, this gut feeling, 'cause I was around that time, while there were a lot of good comments coming in, most people who take action and are doing good stuff, they're just quiet. So they don't oftentimes even take the time to comment or like your stuff. They're just busy doing things. Whereas a lot of the negative people are spending a lot of time writing negative comments, and are really loud, and have no fear of saying that you're a scammer, or you're ruining people's lives. And here I am with my team, we're literally coughing up blood trying to create products for you guys, or trying to create content. 300 videosplus is no joke. It takes a lot of time, a lot of money, a lot of effort, and a lot of sacrifice, giving up a lot of my social life, too. And I remember all those things were getting to me, and I just started all a sudden in the negative 10 degrees temperature in Chicago just started fucking crying. Tears just started coming out of my eyes, and I couldn't control them. And I was like what the hell is happening? It was so random. And I remember I called one of my mentors, Billy, at the time, and I told him, I'm like, "I don't know who to explain this to. "I don't know why I feel like this, "but I feel so discouraged. "I just wanna quit. "I don't wanna make any new content. "I don't even wanna code anymore. "I don't wanna do any of this. "I just wanna stop." And I'm like, "What do I do, dude?" And he just told me, he's like, "Well, that's cool." He's like, "Then just stop." He's like, "It's not above your mental health. "It's not over, it doesn't take priority over your life." So he's like, "Just fucking stop." And all of a sudden, it was almost as if all this giant burden that I had on me just vanished. And I went from being so scared and frightened to I was like, fuck it, I'm just gonna now destroy it. I'm gonna grow this channel to a whole another level. And then when I started getting support, then when I started working with people in a more deep and impactful way. So for example, in our Profitable Shortcut program, which is my absolute favorite thing I get to do every week where students from Clever Programmer are part of the Profitable Shortcut program. And I basically get to speak with them oneonone, or in a group coaching fashion, but I get to actually speak with you. Oh, my God. And every week, they take massive fucking action and have wins. If you look up a channel called Sayem Studios, Sayem. And please go show him some love, guys, I would really appreciate it, Sayem Studios. He put this new video. So that's his channel name, and then his new video is called AI in 2019. So check out his channel, show him some love. In the Profitable Shortcut program, we decided that's what we were gonna take action on, and that's what he was gonna do. And he went ahead and made a video and put up his fricking channel on YouTube. To me, that's such a huge win. That's so deep and impactful that I feel so strong that I just don't give a shit about any of the haters. I just don't care at all. As a matter of fact, I welcome the haters, and I'm just like bring them on. I'm actually excited. And my team is so fired up. And the people around us who are action takers in the Clever Programmer community, in our programs, they're just winning at a whole, like a stupid level. They're just winning at a whole another level. They're getting clients every week. They're landing big deals, they're landing clients. It's really awesome. But more than just even clients, they are taking action. Some of them are starting to build their own personal brand, so to me, that's awesome. This one girl, hager_mahmoud, she tagged me on her IG post, and she's not even in any of our programs. She's just part of the Clever Programmer community. And when we started the 30day Coding Challenge, she is doing double 30day Coding Challenge. Not only is she doing the 30 days of coding, but she's actually going working out as well. And she tags me in her post that she coded and she worked out every day. That makes me come alive. And that makes me just wanna keep doing so much more things, and just keep going nonstop. So this year, Clever Programmer is gonna turn into a fucking cult. We're gonna have a strong community of winners. And my goal is really to get a small amount of people absurd amount of results. And everybody who makes excuses, is stingy, doesn't believe, they can just vanish. It's okay if my subscriber count goes from 300,000 to 20 subscribers. But I'd rather have those 20 people be action takers and actually make a difference in the world rather than 300,000 people, 99%, or I don't know, a big amount of them who might not take action, you know? So I want to have a community of people where we're all very positive, we're very encouraging, we love each other, we genuinely care for each other, we want to inspire each other in the programming world, we wanna help each other get careers, get jobs, we help each other even network. And I want us all to just win at a massive level outside of programming in workouts, in relationships, with family, with free time, with travel. I want us to win in every possible way ever. That's what I'm really excited about this year. Yeah, and it all came from that question (laughs) about working out. So yeah, we'll try to post some working out stuff, too. Okay. Brandon, definitely, man. If you're interested in joining or you wanna learn more about Profitable Shortcut program, it's a pretty premium program, so reach out to us. We're gonna send you... For anybody that's interested in joining, right, we have an application for it. And basically what you have to do is you have to apply for this program. It's not easy to get into. And if you are a good fit, we get on a call with you. We make sure that your goals are aligned with, like your goals, we can help you achieve, and if we're both a good fit for each other, and then we'll essentially go from there, all right? So if you're interested, send us a email at support@cleverprogrammer.com. Write Profitable Shortcut in there somewhere, and we will get back to you. Okay, what? Okay, I'm gonna go through other questions we got. So EpicodeCFK, I hope that helps you on how to deal with discouraging people. Fuck discouraging people. Let them fuel you. Be antifragile. Read the book, Antifragile. The more somebody tries to break you, the stronger you should get. And lately, this year especially, I've been feeling like that. And one thing that has helped me is a very small circle of just real people who I love, and we love making a difference. So that's what's been really awesome. Okay, Michael says, what IDE can I use for Python? Is PyCharm good? Use PyCharm, don't use anything else. Just stick with PyCharm, it's awesome. Havoc says, I've recently learned HTML and CSS. What programming language should I learn next? And you know, trigger finger, bro. And you don't need 20 minutes of clips, just like 10 seconds here and there when I'm really going, (fingers snapping) but just stay on top of that, please. Love you. Okay, so sorry, Havoc's question is, so I have recently learned HTML and CSS. What programming languages should I learn next? And do you know where I can find resources that explain/teach these programming languages? Okay, great. Well, if you've learned HTML and CSS, learn Python. I have a free course on Python. Look up Python programming, and type in Clever Programmer. It's the best Python programming intro course that there is out in the world. I firmly believe that. Go through that course, it's free. Enjoy it, get massive amounts of value out of it. And if you're ready, you can join our Profitable Programmer course, which goes deep into Django. That course is massive. It's about 60plus hours of 4K content. And it's just unbelievable, okay? It has interviews with the best developers in the world, founding engineers of Codecademy, Facebook. The CEO of Repl.it is in there. The Coding for Entrepreneurs guy, Justin, yeah, Justin, Justin is in that course. And more than that, you just make tons of applications, and all with Python and Django. So that's a good process to go and become a web developer. ARAVINDH, I'm gonna skip your question. Brandon says, you did answer, but I would rather join your team, how? Well, if you're interested in interning with us and joining our team, then also send us a email at support@cleverprogrammer.com, and say something like intern, or intend to intern, I don't know, something in the subject line that talks about you wanting to join the team. And then let us know what skill you can offer, what are your skills, and we might be able to bring you on on the team. And if somebody decides to intern, you would have to move to LA. You would have to be local here. And I would happily train you in coding, in lifting, in boxing, in JiuJitsu, in life, in sales, and whatever thing I can help you with. And I would get your help with either video, or programming, or software development, or whatever it is. And then if you're awesome, then you can even join the team, and we can have you as fulltime or parttime. So send us a email, and that could be something pretty cool. All right, Brandon says, how old are you? I'm 24. Okay, let's see. Which book is best for Python? Computer Science by John Zelle, really good book to start off with. Christine, you are welcome. Rich Burnau, what's up, Rich Burnau? I love Rich Burnau. He's on our Instagram, and I message him back and forth a lot, so Rich Burnau is my buddy. And he asked me, favorite frameworks, and why? For me, favorite framework is Django, because it's made for perfectionists with deadlines. And that's it, (laughs) so I love it. It helps you do shit faster than Node.js. If I'm working with a client, I would much rather use Django, because it already comes in with a dashboard completed functionality, or administrator functionality such as a WordPress blogging website, which means that you don't have to spend hours building that, and it makes you look professional. So if you build something for your client, then you just go, oh, hey, I have this dashboard administrator functionality that I built in, but you didn't, because Django did it for you, so I love it. Saves you a lot of time. Dinesh says, your glasses are like, mm, damn, it's so fancy. Thank you so much, my man. I love these glasses, too. These glasses are so good that before, I used to get uncomfortable, and take off my glasses. Now I get uncomfortable, and put on my glasses, 'cause they're so good. Rubessh says, are you from Pakistan? Yes, I am. Do you regret Lear? The hell? I don't understand what that means. Christine says, Christine Smith says, how do you balance social life with being ambitious? You combine the two. So I was having this discussion with my friend, Aaron. And basically, what he wants to do is meet people randomly. And what I want to do that is really awesome, that I like doing, and it makes it easier for me, is I've always had this. How do I combine my social life, and how do I combine, and still grow as a person, become better as a human, still keep up with my personal development stuff, still improve my business, and health? Well, I think I figured it out. Go to meetups. Go to meetups where people are hiking, okay? You're gonna automatically find people in these meetups who are focused on winning in life, who are focused on growing themselves so much so that they went out of their way to actually apply to a meetup and get there. They're gonna be focused on entrepreneurship. A lot of them are gonna be focused on business. You're gonna learn a lot about that as well. So I would suggest you to go to meetups. I think that will be a phenomenal thing that you can do with your time. And that way, you can handle all the things the same time. Faiz ulla says, what are your thoughts on doing business? I like programming a lot, but I don't wanna be stuck doing the ninetofive job. I want to generate passive income. Any advice? Well, that's a great question, and that's exactly what I was doing at the age of 21, 22, when I was going to UIC, and I was making over $100,000 a year, $104,000 a year. I was freelancing, and I had these two developers that I had under me that I had hired essentially from Upwork. And I was project managing them. And they were putting in the work. I was managing them. I was good enough to manage them, and I was also reliable enough and had good enough communication skills to speak with my client. So I spoke with my client, I spoke with my freelancers, I managed the project, and then we delivered it, and my client was happy, the freelancers were happy, and everybody fuckin' won. And I collected my paycheck. Meaning I was playing pool with my friend, Tenzin, and I was getting paid $60, or $70, or whatever it was. I think I negotiated them to $100 an hour, and they were paying me $100 an hour. And that gave me enough profit margin to pay off my developers, and then still be making over $60 an hour. And that was happening. My developers were working for that client even when I would be at school, or even when I was spending time with my family. So that was my way of earning passive income, but not in the stupid way of earning passive income. I felt like this was a lot better, and it felt like a business, and I wasn't stuck to a ninetofive job. I had freedom to travel and do everything that I want. So that's one way I would recommend for you, Faiz. All right, other questions. Dendi says, what's the best way to destroy limiting beliefs? Because it's so annoying for the programmer to move up. Be around a lot of people who don't have lots of limiting beliefs. And they don't have to be in the programming world. They could be in different worlds. So this one girl that I spend a lot of time with that I'm dating right now, her name is Amberley, she is a pro boxer. She's a synchronized swimming Olympic athlete. She fucking, there's nothing that she doesn't do. She's running from LA to Vegas, 350mile run. She's gonna be doing that in a few weeks. She's a Nikesponsored athlete. So what do you think happens when I'm just around her? Do you think my brain has room to grow limiting beliefs? Fuck no. I don't even have room to grow doubt, because I'm around somebody who has no doubt. So then my doubt starts to go away. I'm like, okay, if she can do that, I can at least do one thing, right? I can at least get on a live stream and speak with you guys. I can at least make one video a day, right? Because she's waking up at 500 a.m., and going for a 20mile run, so I can do that. So be around people who don't make excuses, and who do stuff. Aaron is eating 3,000 calories every day almost without making any excuses. And he was a skinny guy just like me who went from 100 pounds, 110 pounds to 155 pounds in a course of a few months, and I wanna do that as well. So I'm around that person, and I don't have room for limiting belief, because he helps take that away from me, and I'm just gonna keep improving. So with programming, do the same thing. Be around people who are so frickin' good, they don't have any limiting beliefs around it, and they'll help you elevate. (engine revving) (exhaling sharply) All right, wow, we're getting a lot of good, quality questions. This is amazing, you guys. Would you quit your regular job if it meant getting a machine learning job sooner? Putting in 10 hours a day in something unrelated to my passion is such a waste of my time. Don't do it then. If it's not your passion, and you're not gonna enjoy it, then, yeah, don't fuckin' do it. Not every dollar is equal, okay? So that's a very important concept. For example, let me ask you, if you're making $1,000 from coding a week, or a month let's say, and you're making $1,000 from driving an Uber, or driving a taxi, which one is better? Seriously, please take a second to answer that right now, okay? Which one is better, making $1,000 from programming is better, okay, option A, or option B is better, making $1,000 from taxi? Now I want you to answer another question, very important. Which one is better, making $500 from programming, option A, or option B, making thousand dollars from Uber, okay? Now I'm gonna tell you the answer. Hopefully, you took the time to put it in chat right now. Doing programming and making $1,000 is better than making $1,000 from doing taxi, all right? And like Ali Mo said, very awesome, $500 from programming is still better than $1,000 from Uber. All right? Because one has what the trajectory of your life, what you're gonna be doing, has no cap, scales infinitely, is in line with your passion versus the other one is shortterm, lizard brain type of thinking, which is what almost all of us do. I'm very guilty of it, too, all right? So please do something that falls in line with what you're gonna be doing, with the trajectory of your life. One of the things that kills me is people like, "Oh, yeah, I wanna become a really great programmer, "but in the meantime, I'm working at Costco "at a cash register for 10 hours a day." I'm like, "What the fuck? "You're crazy, why are you doing that?" They're like, "We don't have any money." I'm like, "Okay, cool. "You don't have any money. "Why don't you in the meantime, do something stupid, "like take out a credit card, "and start putting money on that while you learn programming "and start to get a job." They're like, "It's too risky." I'm like, "Okay, I understand that. "Then why don't you learn programming, "and then go to platforms like TakeLessons or Wyzant, "put up an ad that you can teach Python to beginners, "complete beginners, "and you can teach them things like Hello, World! "You can teach them literally the same lessons "I teach on my YouTube in the free course "where I show you what a turtle is, okay? "I show you the definition of a function in Python. "And then charge people $20 an hour, $30 an hour for that. "You'll have 10yearold rich parents "who want their sixyearold or 10yearold kids "to learn how to program. "They'll pay you between $20 to $60 an hour "happily without flinching. "Why don't you do that?" That way, you can still be making money from programming, improving in programming, it's in line with your future, and you don't have to spend time doing Uber, something that's completely unrelated. So that's how I would answer your question, Drue Staples. Try not to do something that's so out of your passion, all right? (sighs) Victor says, how do I get out of horrible cycle of procrastination? I feel like I'm afraid of success. Victor, great question. You should look into joining Earn $1K with Python. That course is a lot about destroying procrastination. And we actually destroy it right in week one. We go pretty deep into this concept, and we have pretty insane wins on our Instagram, people tagging us all the time in how it's helping them. So I would suggest to send a email at support@cleverprogrammer.com with saying something like earn $1K, all right? And say something with procrastination, so we know who you are. Shravan says, what's your job? Well, I do very little freelancing with coding now. I was doing that a lot more. Now, I run this entire business of Clever Programmer. I help programmers scale their income to six figures and beyond. We have tons of programmers in our Profitable Shortcut who are making over $100,000 a year. And in that group, we're helping them go from $100,000 a year to $200,000 a year, or beyond. So the goal of this entire channel and what I do is I help entrepreneurs, okay, entrepreneurs become sixfigure developers, and beyond, entrepreneurs who believe that there's more to life than just programming, entrepreneurs who believe that there's more to life than just bareminimum job security, because I am not interested in helping people who just wanna get a job for $40,000 a year, and then just have job security for the rest of their lives. It doesn't interest me. It's not who I am. So I'm gonna stop trying to please everybody. But people who are really willing to work hard, go crazy, jump into it, and get insane results in a much shorter amount of time, and want to actually have a life where they have freedom, they can travel, they can spend time with their families, they can pursue their hobbies, and at the same time, love what they do like coding, and even have other freelancers work for them where they can turn it into a business, then join me on this journey, and you're gonna be on a very good path, okay? That's the goal of this channel. So we're becoming a lot more selective of who this is right for, because I think earlier, I just wanted everybody to join, and then I realized there a lot of just excuse makers, and it just sucks me of my energy. It's not mentally healthy for me or my team, and it saps them of their energy, too. Even right now, what I love about this live stream is we're getting such highquality questions, and I fucking love that, like intelligent thoughtful questions, and it also shows your guys' level of hunger of how much you want it, how much you wanna learn it. And if you give me your 100%, I will for all day and for all eternity be willing to give my 100%. And this year, the goal for me also is to do live events where I meet you guys in person. I would make it free for you guys. But I wanna also know what level of interest we have. But I would wanna hold it in LA, 'cause I'm gonna be lazy, and I don't wanna travel anywhere else. But in LA, I would love to hold a inperson event where we can do a masterclass. I can do a training around programming, web development, or freelancing, or going as a entrepreneur to your sixfigure developer mark. All of those things we can do, and have a really intensive programming training. I think that would be really fun. But that's something we're trying to figure out if that's interested. Oh, Hager Mahmoud says, I can't believe you actually mentioned me in your video. But please, I try to create YouTube platform, and I learn Python and Django. Do I need something else? That's awesome. Hager, as you learn, keep making videos. That will be amazing. And you are most welcome. You're also so freaking awesome. That's why I mentioned you. Nik says, how do I get over anxiety? That's a very general question. But how I get over it is I face it rather than feed it. So for example, if I have to give a talk, I will force myself to go and give a talk even if my hands are shaking and I'm really nervous. Like I remember this one time, my hands were shaking so bad, I wanted to hide in the bathroom and not give a talk two minutes before my talk started. And then instead, I just kinda pushed myself into it, and it was awkward, and I was horrible, and it was bad, but then basically, I faced my fear, and I kinda had the worst possible thing take place, and then it helped me overcome anxiety, and I didn't feel anxiety anymore. (chuckles) So what I would suggest is, oftentimes, what I like to do is I'm a big believer of Stoic philosophy. So study Stoic philosophy. And in Stoic philosophy, the idea is that you wanna take a look at the worstcase scenario and become comfortable with it. So what I like to do is when I have anxiety, so let's say that you're afraid that your partner is gonna leave you. Let's say you're married, okay? So I'm just gonna come up with this scenario. I'm not married, I don't have children. But let's say you come up with a scenario of your wife is gonna leave you. So then you start going deeper into it, and you're like, okay, she's gonna randomly just pack up her stuff and leave me. I'm gonna lose 50% of all the money that I've saved, okay. What else could get really bad? It could really hurt my children's future when it comes to education, and they can't go to the colleges they want. What else will happen? The freedom I thought I had, that would be lost. How else can it get worse? Okay, 10 years that I spent with her would be lost, so that time, I can never get back. So you literally make the, (chuckles) I do this. I literally make the list of the most horrendous worstcase scenarios, bullet points, I'll write them all down. Oh, wow, that's awesome. Thank you, Bruce, for mentioning that. Stoic practice called negative visualization. All right, I will not forget that ever. And thank you for jumping on the live stream as well. So for me, it's I will do negative visualization, I just learned it, and I'll just go deep into it, okay? Super deep into it. And then, what I realize is that my fears are actually not so bad. I can actually just go and check each fear off. By the way, guys, you should follow How Communication Works. It's a great channel. And he makes videos on how to overcome anxiety. He's a lot more fuckin' intelligent than I am. He's a PhD, he's a professor, he's a consultant. He is just a badass. He's a public speaker, he's unbelievable. So follow How Communication Works YouTube channel, and he's in the chat here. And I actually just got off the call with him a little bit earlier. So let's go back to the negative visualization. So I'll go through each thing, and then I'll go, okay, 10 years of my time lost with my wife. That's actually not that bad, because I learned a lot. I grew so much, and this is gonna help me for the rest of my life. And I'm actually really excited about who my next wife is gonna be. That's pretty cool. Even though I love my wife, and I don't wanna lose her, all right? I would love to keep her, but I'm just saying how I would deal with the worstcase scenario. What's the other thing? My child's education could be jeopardized. That's okay, because that just means I'm a little bitch. And I should've made more money, so then that shouldn't have jeopardized my child's education. So that's my weakness. Okay, so basically, I need to work harder, work smarter, and actually have more income. So even if it's all lost, I have enough money to take care of that. What next? And I just keep going through the thing, and then at the end, what I find out is that anxiety is just made up in my mind. And once I look at all the fears in their face, and just open that Pandora's box, and open that closet where the boogeyman is hiding, I'm like, this shit's easy. This is actually a lot of fun. If anything, it just seems like a cool challenge. So for me, here's how I think. If a good thing happens, that's great. If a bad thing happens, that's also amazing. And I just become stronger and more resilient, all right? It's a weird way to think of it, about it, but that's how I think of it. All right, let's go through more questions. ♪ Na na na, na na na na, na na ♪ Shravan says, are you a programmer in Amazon or a high company? Nope, I'm not. (whistling) Prathibha says, hey, automating stuff with Python, is that good? That's a really good book. And I'm actually gonna be making a course called How to Automate Stuff with Python, which is gonna be awesome. Ali Mo says, I'm from Skokie. Which meetup would you suggest? Are the meetup you went to still active? Go to PS1. P, PS1, okay? That's a really awesome coworking spot, and you'll meet a lot of programmers there. It's local to Chicago. All right. ♪ Da da da da, da da da, da da da da ♪ Going through more questions, and comments, and stuff like that, let's see. Brandon Johnson says, I want to be on your level, bro. I'm tired of spending my time at a place where I don't want to be. Awesome, Brandon. You should be very fuckin' impatient and feel a lot of pain. Until you feel a lot of pain where you are, and you don't feel like a loser, you will not change, all right? So going deep into how much you suck or how painful something is is really great. It's called negative leverage. And it actually allows you to then make a decision to change and never, ever go back. So I would encourage you to go to that level. Don't go to that level where you wanna like hurt yourself. But just know your own tolerance, and go to the level where you feel it, then you want to change, all right? Okay, let's see. Jeet says, I'm very excited about all your videos. I'm learning Python by teaching myself programming. However, can you advise what projects can I work on to improve my skills in Python? Jeet, go through my free programming course. It has almost all of these answers there, okay? But you can also look up this question on Quora or something. So just find some projects and work on them. ♪ Da na na na na ♪ ChiTown, bro, hell yeah, that's right. Brandon says, I've been waiting for one of your live streams that I can actually can catch, so let's do this, man. Cool, brilliant. Brandon, also emailed me, that's really great. Awesome, man, excited about that. Yeah, Ali Mo, not plumping station, Pumping Station. You know how like you pump gas, or you pump the brake? (faucet water splashing) So it's pumping station. Okay, so Bruce, How Communication Works, asks, what did chess teach you about programming? (chuckles) I love this question, but one thing I also find funny about it is that a lot of people will make so many correlations about chess and other things that I do in life, like, "Oh, I bet when you're boxing, "because you're a chess player, "you probably think about different moves, you know? "You're like, ooh, and then you go down." Or they'll say things like, "Oh, because you're good at chess, "it probably helps you with programming." And it's really funny. The really sad answer is that it has taught me nothing about programming or boxing at all. They're kinda like unrelated. And I wish that they were related. But I don't know. Maybe it taught me to think at a really deep level. What's up, Frankie? [Aaron] I'm gonna actually Maybe it allowed me to just be able to focus and think at a deeper level, and analyze my lines. So I remember when I'd be doing chess puzzles, I'd be like going through lines very indepth, and writing the analysis, like what happens in each variation. So in variation one, what happens? In variation two, what happens? So I guess you're right, you're right. It improved my logical thinking a lot. So if this, then what happens? And that carried over a lot to my programming. It made me very analytical, factual, and it made my logical thinking very, very, very precise. So yeah, actually, you're right, my bad. It did help a lot. It helped a lot, I just didn't realize it. (chuckles) Ali Mo says, I'm typing too fast, 'cause I'm too excited for this live chat. That's awesome, I love that. I'm gonna give you your laptop. But if you can give [Aaron] No, I'll be back in two hours, just I didn't wanna interrupt one of your questions. So I can take your laptop? [Aaron] Yeah, just leave it. I don't need it right now. Okay, perfect. Yeah, I'll be back in an hour. Thank you, Aaron. It won't be two hours. Really appreciate it. Everybody said bye to Aaron. Bye, Aaron. [Aaron] See you, guys. (laughs) He said, "See you, guys." Okay, cool. Joao Luis asks, how did you started job hunting when you did freelancing? craigslist, meeting people, local meetups, stuff like that, massive action. Mickey, what are your thoughts on blockchain, specifically, programmable money like Ethereum? It's been a rabbit hole and an aha moment for me. It's too hard for me to understand. But I do know I made $20,000 from Ripple coin in one day. My friend and I put in $3,000. And I remember, we have this on Instagram, and every few seconds, we'd be like, "Ah." 'Cause we would refresh, and it would go from 3,000 to $4,000. Then we would refresh again, it went from 4,000 to 5,000. Then we refreshed again, it went from 5,000 to 8,000. And it went up to $27,000, and we literally just lost our mind. We were going crazy. And I don't know if you guys remember him, Mustafa, he used to be on this channel quite a bit a year ago. And we went all the way up to that, and then we were like, "Bro, should we take this out?" And I'm like, "No, no." I'm like, "This is gonna go to the moon." And we just kept waiting. And then we refreshed, and it went from 27,000 to 24,000. And then we're like, "Should we take it out now?" We're like, "No, no, no, it's gonna come back up." It went from 24,000 to 20,000. We kept waiting, from 20,000 to 18,000. And from 18,000 to 15, 15 to 12, and we were like, "Now, we might as well just not take it out." And eventually, it went to like 5,000, and we finally took it out. So we made like $2,000, but if you're serious about your investment, and you care about the money, then don't put it in something unless you really, really, really understand it, 'cause you're not gonna beat the market. So longterm investments are good, you know? Put something in S&P 500. That thing is lifelong. It has shown through the history of time that it's a good investment to make. So Ray Dalio will tell you to make that investment. Tony Robbins will tell you to make that investment. So something like S&P 500, putting some amount of money in there every month, that's a really good idea. But bitcoin and stuff, I'm not playing around with that that much anymore. (notification chimes) Okay, yup, chess also definitely taught me some patience as well. Oh, LOGAN BURNAU, I think... All right, so I think I remember, Richard, you told me that you like the movie, Logan, so much that you named your son Logan. And I think LOGAN BURNAU is your son. So that's actually really cool. Logan says, I'm in high school, what's the best way to learn Python? Go through my free course, LOGAN, Learn Python Programming. It's amazing. Clint says, what language would you recommend after Python? I would say don't just, it's like, if you learn English, then don't learn Japanese. Once you learn English, then get a job in a Englishspeaking place. Then find a Englishspeaking wife. And then, (chuckles) find a gym where people speak English. And create Englishspeaking, do English public speaking. Make Englishspeaking friends. So that's the next part, all right? Don't just learn a language, and then learn another language. Use the... Yeah, use it for its purpose. And then you can move on to another language if you need it. What would be a good hourly rate to charge for tutoring programming? Start with $20 an hour, $15 an hour. So even if you suck at selling, you can have such a low price that people will join. And then scale it up, okay? I've had sessions where I've taught chess to a fiveyearold girl whose dad paid me $150 an hour to teach her. So you can go from $15 to $150 an hour. But 150's at the really high range, and 15, I would say, is at a pretty low range. Oh, Clackening was just learning Django right now, so that's actually really cool, love that. (clears throat) Luis says, I'm really glad. Your Learning Python Programming playlist is so good. Awesome, it is really damn awesome. Rich Burnau says, LOL, LOL. I didn't know he was listening to your live feed in his room. But yes, that's my son. (chuckles) Awesome, cool. So I made that connection very well. Francisco Alarcon says, thanks for the insights. Awesome, he's sitting right there throwing in some fake comments to make the stream look like it's popping. Zephaniah, Zephaniah SefuOduori, I hope I butchered your name, says, the Englishspeaking analogy is very awesome. (laughs) Thank you. What other question? Clackening says, I don't really care about data science. All I want to learn is back end Django. I'm a similar way, man. It's much easier to start with data science than it is to start with Django. If I had to go and become a programmer, I would do web development, get my foot in the door, start earning an income, and then switch over, and in my own time, be learning data science, and then get a data science job with years of experience under my belt as a developer. I think that's a much easier and better way to go about it. Shahzad says, do you think about working on freelance sites on small projects such as WordPress bugs, integration, and working on a lot of those projects? Yeah, those are great. You can be making a lot of money on those. I would say it like this. Go to local clients. Find web development projects. Then go on Upwork, hire freelancers, charge the client $1,000 to deliver their result, all right? And then just be the middleman, and pay your freelancer $300, $200, $200. And if they're especially in some other country other than United States, they will be super happy. They'll love doing it. They're gonna be like... A lot of them don't feel like they're privileged. They don't have the sense of entitlement. They're really hardworking people, and they're very reliable. So they'll do the project for you, and then you could be a middleman, and manage it. And you get the customer what they want, and they win, the client wins. You get them a good, solid result. The person who's working for you wins, because you're helping them get work, and maybe even find consistent work. And then you are also winning, because you are just project managing, and you are collecting a nice, profitable paycheck. Awesome. So that's pretty good for now, guys. We took a lot of questions. You guys had really, really good. Okay, I'm gonna actually take Christine's last question. Would you recommend learning, 'cause my throat is like dying now. Would you recommend machine learning or AR/VR if your goal is to freelance to clients slash start a software dev company? (bottle crinkles) Hmm. That's a tricky one. But I know a lot of successful people who do VR personally. I don't many with AR. That's only because I don't know much about augmented reality. AR stands for augmented reality. VR is virtual reality. So I don't know much about AR. But for VR, I do know people who are pretty successful. So I would say look into VR is really cool. So one of the people that I know, he's a really highlevel person. His company's at a whole another level than my company. And it probably making over $10 million a year. And what he does is he has created, so they wanna train the military people and train pilots. So training each pilot on how to ride a military helicopter takes a lot of money. It's like $100,000, or $200,000, or something per pilot, just really expensive. So what he did was he made this virtual reality thing with his team where it simulates a military helicopter. And now these pilots actually get trained through VR. And all they have to pay is a very, they don't have to pay that much at all anymore. So their cost went from like $200,000 per pilot to say $5,000 per pilot to train. So that company's saving a lot of money. The government is saving a lot of money, and this company is making a lot of money. It's a very great business idea. So VR is a pretty awesome thing to look into. Oh, sorry, guys. Yeah, my link isn't working. I know why. So just go to cleverprogrammer.com, all right? Cleverprogrammer.com, because my other link is broken in the description, so don't go to that one. Cleverprogrammer.com is the one you gotta go to. Yup, Christine, you're welcome. For everybody else who wants to get more in touch with me oneonone like mm, like this, because there a lot less people on my Instagram, and I love that human connection, that live oneonone feeling, like I wanna see your face right now, you know? This is cool, but I wanna see your face. I don't wanna, like Ali Mo, I wanna see his face. Clackening, I wanna talk to him. Christine, I wanna get to know her. I wanna get to talk to you. Tyler messaged, like Shawn, all these people, everybody's question that I answered, you're all cool people, and I wanna get to know you, but I can't do that through YouTube. So if you follow me on Instagram and message me, I can communicate with you through video. I can message you oneonone, so do that. And then when you're coding, you can actually tag me in what you're doing, and I love that. You could post it on your story, and tag me, and it notifies me, and then I can tag you in my story, all right? And that, we could hold each other accountable to our own goals, and the things that we're trying to do in life. So for all of you guys who wanna take it to the next level, make yourself more accountable, and just have more fun, and if you wanna help me feel more human by actually being in connection with you instead of like, 'cause otherwise, it just feels like a void, it feels like nothing, then go to my Instagram, and add me @cleverqazi, okay? And message me there. Make sure you leave a message, and you say something like you came from live stream. And let's just hang out there, all right? We can talk there. The things I don't like are like desperate people, people asking like thoughtless questions, people trying to use me like a homework assignment, you know? Like hey, here's this code, help me solve this. It's also not customer support. But if you're there, and you're either asking a good, quality question, or you're a cool person, and we're just hanging out, that's a lot of fun, it's exiting. And if you're coding, and you're just sharing a picture of you coding, that's really cool. You're reading a book or something, and you were sharing that, and then I share that to other people, that's fun, too. That's exciting. It'll keep you on track to you doing your own coding stuff in your programming career, and also keeps me more motivated seeing that you're winning. So really, my goal is to have this small tribe of winners on Instagram, and then we communicate with each other. Hmm. Yeah, intelligence, intellectual, and idealistic. I like that, triple I. All right, guys, thank you so much. I love your face. Follow me on Instagram, all right? And message me. Make sure to message me on Instagram. And other than that. I.