Hey guys, what's up? This is Qazi from cleverprogrammer.com and welcome to the Ask Qazi segment. I am going to be answering a question by Kevin the Holy Cow. Kevin asks, "Hey Qazi, I'm a big fan and I had a question I wanted answered. I completed your Learn Python for Free course and I spent a long time prac It's a long question. I'm gonna (laughs) summarize it for you guys. Essentially he's saying hey, I finished up the free course, I want to learn and take the OOP course, but I was wondering since I want to work at companies like Amazon, Google, Microsoft, and what have you, how much percentage of Python is the OOP course going to help me with? Let's just right into it. (upbeat techno music) Okay, so here's how I'm gonna answer this question; it's a weird, it's a little weird question, Kevin, but I'm not kinda coming at you, I'm just trying to help you out here and here's why, because it's like asking English how much percentage of English is covered. Percentage of Python covered is not going to land you a job even like at good companies like Google, Microsoft, the Big Four. I'll also link the awesome talk by this one guy, I forgot his name, but he talks about the Big Four and how you can get into it, and he talks about solving coding challenges, getting really good with algorithms and stuff like that, but one theme you'll notice is it doesn't have to do with a programming language and your breadth of percentage how much you've covered in it, it's about what you can do with it. It's about how many projects have you built with it and how can you help Google, Microsoft, or a local company out using Python. Nobody cares, like somebody wants to hire you is not gonna be like, Hey, you know 20% of Python? Okay, let's go. I'm gonna pay you $100,000 a year. No, they don't care about that. They're gonna be like hey, listen. I want to hire you. We have 100 or $300,000 of revenue coming in every year, but if we use some data analysis on this, I want to understand my customers' behavior, I want to understand their patterns, I want to reach out to them and automate everything the right way, think Amazon and how they upsell you. You'll click on a certain thing and then they'll bring up a recommendation, or think Netflix, how you'll watch a movie and it's so intelligent it'll figure out what movies it should recommend to you. Similarly, when somebody's hiring you that's what they're looking for, somebody who can actually do things. And then if you happen to be able to do it with Python, then that's why they want to hire you. If you were able to do that with Java, they'd want to hire you as well, okay. As long as you can do that thing. So, it's not about the percentage. Now, going back to my course, my course is teaching you ideas. My beginner beginner course, Learn Python, teaches you the basics of the language so you can start to move around in the language, become a little bit flexible with it, like a ninja almost, but it's very specific to just coding. But now going to the OOP course, that course is really about taking the code, turning it into something real, a graphical user interface. So that course is focusing heavily on teaching you objectoriented programming, which if you don't know what it is already, it doesn't matter to you and you don't care, but the most important things that you'll learn in it are how to create realworld applications at a pretty simple level, and we won't be going to the web applications yet, that's the next course, that's what it's gonna cover, because I don't want you guys to have the complexity of understanding how networking works while trying to create your apps. Also, you would have to learn JavaScript, HTML, CSS, SQL, learn a Flask Framework. So I don't want to combine all of that at once. Right now I want to keep Python, have you learn locally, taking the OOP course so you can build these apps locally, then once we go online, you won't have to deal with the complexity of Python; you'll understand that part perfectly. All you'll have to worry about is learning the additional things to take your offline app to online. Okay? (slow deep bass music) Kevin, great question. I hope that this answers that question for you. Again, if you want to work at the Big Four, also watch the interview that I talked about, I'll link it if I can find it. If I can't, would somebody else please jump in the comments and help 'em out. That's it guys for this video. Thank you guys so much for watching. As always, I love you, and I'll see you in the next video.