Hey, you. What is up? How's it going? This is Qazi from CleverProgrammer.com. In this video, I'm going to talk about how you can get a job as a python developper in 2018 and what skills you should focus on. So without any further ado, let's jump right into it. (upbeat music) Alright, so in this video, I'm going to talk about very, very practical things, and I'm not going to give you fluffy advice I'm going to give you specific stuff, some book recommendations as well and what are the most important things you need to focus on so you can build your skills as well as turn it into getting a job. Okay, whether it's fulltime, freelancing, whatever have you. Alright, my friend. Tip number one Build your GitHub repository. Now, does it have to be GitHub, Qazi? No, my friend. You can use BitBucket, you can use GitLab, whatever you want to host your code online, please don't use Dropbox or send your code through Zip Files because nobody wants to see that. So... Start on GitHub early on. Learn Git version control early on because those will be very, very key skills when it comes to you landing a job. And you want to learn these skills, and these skills are fundamental for any programming language. And once you learn these, this is what shows other people that you care about working with other human beings. Cause you don't wanna learn version control when you're working on some giant project. You want to be already messing up in it and learning through that trial and error while you're just a beginner. So by the time you're working on more advance projects you already got the Git version control and putting your code on GitHub repository down and you can actually put some good stuff there. Cool? Alright, that's number one. Second thing I will tell you is You should follow PEP8 style guidelines if you're writing Python code. And that you should focus a lot on making your code readable. Because this demonstrates that you're not just coding for yourself just so your head can understand it. You're coding for other people as well. Think about it like this, I don't know about you, but when I am taking notes I am a terrible note taker and in the meantime, I'll take these notes and they'll make sense to me, but then later when I come back and look at these notes, I'm like, "what does this mean"? So that knowledge I got at one point is actually completely useless to me when I look at it later. And what do you think happens to somebody else who like if I can't understand the freakin' notes do you think somebody else who's reading my notes will learn from it and get knowledge out of it? Of course not, right? So take notes in a way where other people can understand them and also you can understand it completely clearly even if you looked at it at some point later. Cause if you ever have any experience working with a project that you had to maintain for two weeks, a month, two months, three months? You will know, or a year, you will know how important it is to write readable code so that you can go back to it and understand what it is you were doing. Cause if you don't, and you have to refigure it all out and you have to scratch it all up again. Not good. And the other people who are going to be looking to hire you, the recruiter, they are going to see your code and be like, "Uhuh, this person isn't thinking about working with other people. He's just thinking about himself". Number Three Learn the skill of documentation. Your code should not just have Python in it. It should have some human language in it as well. Because ultimately you are writing code for human beings. So you need to write a lot of documentation. If you're in United States, definitely the documentation should be in English. So meaning like what each function does, what each class is doing, how is your code working? Documenting it, very important. And then having a README file of your GitHub repository. So how does your code actually work? And that shows people that, "Hey look, this person is so considerate that he has a README guide, so that anybody that goes through his project can immediately understand how things are working. You wanna go crazy on the skill of documentation, putting your code on GitHub, and making your code very readable, okay? So PEP8 style guidelines and all of that. Some recommendations, other recommendations I'm going to give you to improve your skill set is read other people's code. Alright? Now, I don't know about you, but when people used to tell me this and I would go online and read code, I'd be like, "what the hell does this mean? I don't understand any of this". What you need to do is read code around your skill level. That's what people don't tell you. Okay? So sometimes what I would do, for example, is let's say I was taking a course in Coursera. Okay? Or Udacity.com. These are online MOOCs, Massive Online... Whatever, courses. The idea behind them is that once you're going through it what you can do is like, let's say there's assignment one that you are doing. There's going to be somebody in the world whose also done this assignment and decided to put it on their GitHub. You can go to that person's GitHub and after you giving this assignment a try, you can look at how they coded it. So if they're a beginner, you'll be able to read and actually understand their code if you're a beginner as well. Don't read some crazy advance library cause it's not gonna make any sense to you. I'm going to be honest, reading some advance people's code makes no sense to me to this day, okay? But I read around my skill level, that's an important thing. Nobody talks about it. They're just like, developers are just like, "Yeah, just go read code". Yeah, okay. Good luck. Good freakin' luck just reading any code. So find something that's around your skill level and learn from that, okay? If you make a rockpaperscissors game in Python or tictactoe game. Then look that up on GitHub and see if someone else has made a rockpaperscissors game that you can understand and then read that code. Or go on Stack Overflow and read questions to some simple... Answers to some simple questions and read their code. So you being able to read code is a very important skill that you need to cultivate. And if you're more advance, look into Kenneth Reitz and read his code in the Requests library, which is one of the most phenomenal libraries in Python and it's called HTTP for Humans and it's him, that's like the best physical manifestation of somebody who truly understands what it means to write code for human beings. And if you look at his GitHub repository and his documentation and just his style of coding. You'll be like, "Wow. This is awesome". So that's another tip I'll give you on improving your skill and what skills are the most important. Other tips I'm going to give you are read a book called Fluent Python, especially if you're around that intermediate level. Almost died there actually. Read books on this because books like Fluent Python will teach you a lot of Pythonic code. So this way you don't just look like somebody who was developing yesterday in C++ and decided to work in Python today. That shows your ability with Python. So for example, instead of using regular lists for something, you can use list comprehensions. Somewhere where you need to use a generator or yield instead of wasting a lot of your speed of your code by not using a yield or generator. A lot of these more advance skills, you're going to learn through something like more advance books. So read something that gives you the ability to write more Pythonic code. Tip number 23. I lost count at this point. But the reason why I'm giving you these is because a lot of these are very tangible and you can actually get on them right away. And before I actually move on from Kenneth Reitz, recently I learned something new. I was looking up Kenneth Reitz and I looked up one of his recent essays on project structure for Python and he talks about how you should structure your code and he said something about Django that I actually didn't know. And he says a lot of Django developers create their repositories in the wrong way and it causes a lot of confusion. And poor naming conventions, so he gives this tip on how not to do it I'll actually put it right here, the screenshot of the essay that I read. And I learned something new right away. And now as a Django developer, if I have that on my GitHub repository with that tip he said, when somebody who is in the industry reads my code now will be like, "Okay, this guy knows what he's doing". Another person I will tell you about is you should look into this guy Raymond, I believe his last name is Hettinger. Or Hettinger. I don't know how to pronounce it, but incredible dude. I've listened to so many of his talks. Fascinating, entertaining, incredibly intelligent... And just the way that he speaks is so eloquent and he will make you laugh and show you really Pythonic stuff and he's one of the people whose added so much to the Python library and so many powerful contributions to Python. You should listen to his talks and definitely listen to his one on transforming code and something like transforming code and idiomatic Python. So I'll put a link to that somewhere in this description in the Youtube description so you can watch that video there. Learn from that and actually then go back to your code and actually turn it into more and more Pythonic code. Put that up on your GitHub repository. And in summary, here's what I'm going to say There's no wrong way. There's only the right way. Or you can go through. Go right and then go through something. (laughter) Anything you want. [Woman] Wow, alright. Thank you so much for watching, as always this is Qazi, I love your face, and I'll see you in the next video! Woosh! [upbeat music]