How should you invest in yourself when it comes to coding and you developing your coding skills? That is the question I also get very often and I'm gonna answer that for you, so without any further ado, let's jump right into it. (dramatic music) I'm gonna also give you examples of what I've done and what I've invested in and actually specifically how I invest in myself now and I want you to take away some really important concepts here and they apply to your whole life, your coding career, your software development career, your whether it's freelancing or whether you want to be an entrepreneur, run your own business, whatever it may be. You are the biggest asset. You are the asset. Creator, not the creation. What does that mean. If somebody works and builds a business, it's not the business that's the most important asset, it's you, you are the magician, you created the business out of thin air. When it comes to your career and your software development and your apps, or whatever it may be, you are the creator, you are the magician, you create something out of thin air because of who you are and what you've learned. What does that mean? Does that mean that the most investment that you should make is like on the business itself or on some external equipment? Where should you make your investments? Should it be getting the best computers, the best technology when it comes to coding? When it comes to the business, should it be getting the best type of office space? Where should you invest? The best investment you can make is actually by investing in yourself. What do I mean by that? Instead of getting all this equipment and all its other stuff and paying for that, if you have extra money, great, go ahead and do that but you should actually invest in yourself when it comes to learning. So, go take an online course, learn from that. There are plenty of free resources, so use them but if there's a course that you're Udacity and you're on Udemy and you're like man, this course is really good, it can help me, if it's like five or 10 bucks, go and take the damn course so you can learn. Another thing that happens when you make that investment, for me at least what happens is I feel like it's a little bit more serious and I gotta finish it otherwise I would have wasted my money so to speak, so that kind of holds me committed to it. And if you're going to college or high school or whatever, if you're learning from an academic course, that's just one resource for you to use and learn from. So, invest in those. Some other forms of investment that are really important for you is invest in a coach who can help you learn more coding. Let's say that there's a software developer who'll work with you for $35 an hour or $50 an hour. While that seems like a lot and you're like hey, for 50 bucks I can get like three books. Yes, but here's something you're not thinking about. When you're working with these people, you're thinking about just using them as a tutor for that one hour. The most value you can get out of it actually is when you're working with somebody for an hour, don't just work with them for one coding project or one problem but rather ask them about the career, ask them about what path should you follow, ask them about what projects and what specific things you should work on for the next few weeks. So, if you're working with one person for a month and you're doing four hours with them and let's say that costs you 200 extra bucks a month, that's gonna be one of the best investments you can make in yourself when it comes to learning coding skills because you have a real software developer who's gonna tell you what are the right things to do as you advance in your career or if you're a beginner or a student, they'll give you the path, so let's say that you meet them every Monday. And let's say the first Monday that you meet them, they assign you at the end of the call, they assign you, hey, this is one project you should work on, here's some assignments you should work on, we'll reconvene next Monday and then you meet with them and it won't feel like much in the start but that accountability will be absolute key when it comes to you just massively improving your skills and sticking to coding and not quitting and improving at a consistent pace 'cause now it's not just you, it's actually somebody else there as well. So, getting mentorship or coaching, that's one powerful way you can actually leverage investments in yourself and speed up your coding progress. So, that's one way you can invest in yourself. Just have a mentor or get coding courses and speed up your progress that way. I'm gonna tell you exactly kind of how much I was investing in myself as I was learning coding and I'll also share with you how much I invest in myself now so you can get an idea of what's okay and where I'm at and where my head is at and maybe it can inspire you and give you ideas to invest in different things in your life. So, back when I started coding, what I was doing was a lot of the money that I was making from my other freelancing jobs or whatever it may be, I would use that money to hire a coach and go and have weekly calls with them for one hour or two hours, maybe more hours and just work with them and develop my skills and since I couldn't afford somebody that was really expensive, one thing I can suggest to you is look online on other platforms like there's a platform like onlinejobs.ph and these are Filipino Rock Stars. That's what their title is on their website and they'll charge you so little, like it's almost like these people you can pay them $100 for fulltime work per week and it's totally legal and they'll work with you. And it can really be that cheap and so, imagine, you hire somebody from there who can speak English really well and you can pay them 10 bucks an hour, 15 bucks an hour and learn. You can get creative with this process. But the main idea is that I would invest in myself by working with these coaches and I would do that, so I had a coach on Codementor, I had a coach actually in real life as well because people wanna help people who are really hungry, so when I was going to these coding meetups, I was showing everybody I was hungry, I wanted to learn, so I naturally actually had some mentors that gravitated towards helping me in my journey and they would help me without needing to even ask me for money. They would just help me 'cause they were excited 'cause somebody was so hungry to learn. I just put my ego to the side. So, I was investing in getting coaching, I was investing in getting courses, so I bought Udacity's course I think on web development, their backend and front end development. I joined their course on, like the computer science course. When it came to Coursera, I joined their path so I could learn from them. I took their IIP course, Introduction to Practical Programming in Python. I forget specifically how it's written out but that was one of their courses that I took, their PoC, Principles of Computing and then many, many, many other courses. So, that was another way I invested in myself. I would get Codecademy and work through that. And those are just a few examples and nowadays when it comes to how I invest myself, I have mentorship, so recently I joined one of my mentor's programs, her name is Mariah and she's just running this fantastic business program and for six months it was about a $20,000 program and essentially it's like four calls with two inperson meetups, four calls per month that you get and group calls and then two inperson meetups and I think I shared a vlog on that meetup as well but I'm trying to focus more on the coding things for this channel 'cause I feel like you guys want the coding stuff and less of the business stuff, so I hear you and I'm gonna be more specific on that. But that was one thing I invested in. Other things I invested in is like meal prep. For every week I have specific meals so I don't have to actually think about that. Other things I invest in are online business courses or coding courses or people who can help me just learn coding at a faster rate 'cause now I have a little bit less time. I'm managing this channel, I'm creating content, trying to learn more about business. At the same time learning actually more about coding, so there's a lot of things happening. Everybody's budget is different. So, it might not be possible for you to just invest so much in yourself but start with something 'cause ultimately it's a habit and it's a mindset and it's a pattern. Because if you hold back on always investing in yourself, you're like five bucks, it's too much, you're training yourself to say that you're not worth it. At a core level what you're saying is that you don't trust in yourself. And one thing I can tell you is you're gonna be the most important investment and you're the ultimate asset, so if you don't trust in yourself, other things aren't gonna make you trust in yourself more. So, please focus on that and start making this a habit. When you see a book and if you think you can even get one idea from this coding book, just get the damn book. It'll be 20 or 30 bucks worse case scenario and it's somebody's 10 years of experience that they've put down into this one book and if you get one idea that's helpful for you, that idea will be worth more than the 20 or 30 bucks that you pay for it. So, it's a mindset and what is 20 or 30 bucks? It's like a few meals or for some of us we get Doritos and freaking CocaCola and Pepsi and just skip out on that and get this or if you don't wanna skip out on it, then just figure out a way to increase your income and supplement your income so you can get these things as you go along. I'm a big believer in investing in yourself as much as you can 'cause that allows you to grow the fastest. That was a little bit of my story and that's my message for you. Thank you so much for watching. If you have any questions on how to invest in yourself or you have a certain budget and you're like Qazi, I'm just like I don't know how to do it, whatever it may be, post it in the comments below, I'll jump in there and try to help you out. Again, I appreciate you so much for being on my channel, watching these videos. If you like this video, hit the thumbs up, subscribe to the channel. I love your face. This is Qazi and as always, I'll see you in the next video. (clapping) [Man] Very nice, very lovely. [Qazi] Sweet yeah, I think that was really solid and yeah.