(upbeat music) Hey you, what is up? This is Qazi from Cleverprogrammer.com. Today I'm here with Brennan Dunn and he's the founder of DoubleYourFreelancing.com and this guy, you know a lot of us on this channel wanna learn about freelancing and we're developers and how can we actually increase our income? This is somebody who has helped many many developers and pretty much primarily Mostly developers, yeah. Mostly developers increase their income so I thought it'd be great to just sit down and chat with Brennan Dunn. So thanks so much for being here, and welcome. Yeah, thank you, thanks for having me. We have lots of Python developers and we have people also in lots of different countries. Now when people are trying to become developers is there sometimes a common objection you hear with oh, I'm in a different country, or there are people competing with us from a different market so we can't really become developers or how do we charge? How do you deal with that when people ask you those types of questions? Yeah, so the question is And you can even hold this. Okay cool. Yeah, so I mean in terms of things like, oh I'm in a certain country or I wanna work, like the typically one would be, I wanna work with Americans but I'm out of the U.S. or something like that. How do I get American clients? Is that kinda what you're getting at? Yes. Yeah. I mean I think like I've both hired and worked with and helped a lot of people who are geographically not where their clients are, all right. And I think the big concern and I think, which is sometimes correct, is there's a cultural or a language gap or something like that between them and their clients. At the end of the day I think, the best thing that you can do as a developers, doesn't matter where you're located, what framework or language you code in or anything else like that, is the thing that helped me. So my backstory was I was freelance. I worked remotely, I've never really worked on site or anything for a client. So it's always been a remote. Always been remote. Always been remote. Interesting. I've never done on site. Great. Which is a good thing, I think. Yeah, that's great. That's what a lot of our developers wanna be able to do, work remotely. Yeah, yeah. And typically, I mean if you're doing like contract work, then you're on site and you might be independent but you're still kind of like, you're basically staff augmentation or something like that, right? You're inhouse. So I think, I transitioned out of being freelance to owning an agency. And I grew that agency to 11 employees, we did software development, that was our thing. Great. The thing that helped the most for us, 'cause none of our clients were local. We were in the U.S., working primarily with U.S. companies, but we worked with companies in Japan, we worked with companies in South America and pretty much all over. But I think the thing that I think was most beneficial to us to set us apart was we were laser focused on what is the problem that they're paying us to solve? Yes. Right? So instead of just saying, "Oh I'm a good Python dev. "Oh I know Django, I know this, that or whatever." The clients that I think you typically want to get are the ones who might not even know what Python is, or might not care. They just want a problem fixed. So for us, we shifted away from, all right so realizing no one's paying us tens of thousands of dollars for lines of code. They're paying us 'cause they need something R&D'd, they need help with the research even and not just the development of certain products. They need help in figuring out how should these be built, why should they be built in a certain way and so on. And we ended up not only being able to charge a lot more and kind of being able to get to the point where we had this great profitable team and everything else, but we were able to really get away from marketing ourselves as a development shop and instead focusing on, I mean it sounds really enterprisy and kinda cringy, but you know as a solutions provider who happened and we used, I know you're Solution. (mumbles) we were a Ruby shop. Nice. But at the end of the day we didn't describe ourselves as Ruby developers. Our clients, most of our clients didn't even know we used Rails or what Rails was or anything like that. Got it. Yeah. Okay so that's fantastic. So one of the things that I got from that was to focus on what their main problem is, it doesn't really matter. That's why they're paying you. Why are they paying you, right? Instead of focusing on oh this is what I do, Python and Django and then trying to look for that. Now, a lot of the people who are watching this channel are either beginners in coding or that's most of the people watching, then there's a segment who are developers, but wanna start freelancing. So what would be your advice on people getting their first, so let's say, let's speak to beginners. Let's say, if they wanna get their first client. Right. If you had to go back in time, how would you approach your coding, like picking up the coding skills and then at what point in time would you start going for clients and how would you get that first client? If you just had to reverse engineer that journey? Yeah, good question, so with me, you know I started freelancing after I was already a senior developer, right? So I didn't need to both acquire skills on how to code while also acquire skills on how to freelance, right? So, I think if I were to go, like wake up tomorrow, have no business, and not really great as a developer or even knowing how to code, I think in retrospect, what I would probably do would be to immerse myself as much as possible in, and again I know this isn't always practical depending on where you live, but in the local business community. Just keep my ear to the ground and listen to what they're up to, what do they do? And just be really interested in seeing like what are they doing? Maybe they're doing a bunch of stuff with like Excel and they're kinda hitting the upper limits of what, but maybe you're talking with people and they're using Excel and they're passing Excel spreadsheets around the office and this is a core part of their internal workflow. And I might think well, maybe I could just do something with Zapier or something, right? I can make it so, I can consult with them to say let's use Google Sheets and then we'll have Zapier that will pick up on row changes and then when certain things are done we maybe shoot off an email. Or there's a lot you can do nowadays which were, when I started out none of this stuff was possible, that you can do with effectively off the shelf things that get you in the same programming mindset, right? Of like, even the stuff we're doing in here in this conference, the automation stuff, I mean, you're doing if/else and segmentation. I mean it's pretty much the same kind of mental stuff you're doing as a developer. So I think it would help there, and then you can obviously get more into code and such as you need to. But if the goal is to make money with paying clients as quickly as possible, I would not personally try to dive head first into learning a whole giant Python framework or something day one. Wow. I would probably start with what can I do to deliver business value in a technical way that just might not be super technical, but at least it's technical enough. Yeah that's fascinating. And I'd start with that and then probably go deeper. Okay, so that's a really fascinating answer because what I love about it is it, because of what happens with people is they're often trying to tackle the complexity of learning how to code with the complexity of learning how to build a business at the same time. I think both of those things are difficult when you're trying, they're difficult on their own, then they get very difficult if you're trying to do them both together. Right. Simultaneously. And what you're saying is, hey, break them apart a little bit, so do one thing first. So for example, in this case, maybe instead of just diving deep into Python and spending the next six months to three years and still not feeling like a good enough developer to be able to freelance, which is most people's story around it, you focus on going and keeping your ear to the local businesses and seeing if you can provide value in somewhat of a technical way. And it doesn't even have to be with Python. What's funny that you say that is, when I built my Chess business a really long time ago, it was called Chesstastic and we would, I would find schools and I would go to them and I would offer them Chess services. But how I would find these schools, because I was constantly finding myself Googling everything. And the Googling got really, it was really laborious and really, but then I would always looking for certain criteria from these schools. Like they had to have, these libraries would have to have ages eight through 11 yearolds, for me to be able to teach there. There should have these other recreational programs. Then I created an Excel sheet that would automatically do all this stuff. So you were like scraping these pages and pushing it in Excel, yeah. Yep, and I didn't even know how to code at that point. Right. So I was just using Excel functionalities and then I got off of Excel until I literally maximized it. So like I had to get off of it when it said like NA or something, because I was getting throttled with API and I didn't even know what that meant. Yeah, yeah right. So I hired a developer for that. But you learned, doing that you learned the mental stuff that would help you as a developer later on. Correct. Yeah. Correct, so I learned so much of the stuff that would help me as a developer later on. So I think that what you're saying is really valuable to the viewers who are watching, because if they can right now, focus more on the business side of things, doing things that are maybe more technical. Like for example, they can go to a place where there are like a lot of old people who don't know how to install an antivirus on their computer. Yeah, yeah. You know it's like you can help them. You can charge them, and then you can get more complex with it depending on what your skill level is. Maybe you can help businesses with more technical service. So I've got an example that actually came from a local networking event I went to years ago. Local to me in Virginia. And that was, I was doing the agency thing and we were just networking and talking with people, just at the bar, like drink up thing. It was after a meetup. And the guy was saying, "Oh I'm trying to, "I have all these customers and I wanna find out, "I wanna get them all to be able to fill out "a quick little form thing and then pay me for," It was like a certification thing that he was selling. "And then I wanna be able to get all that "into a spreadsheet." And he's like, "So you guys are developers, "can you build that for me?" And the coder in me was thinking, you know that's a lot of early developers start with C.R.U.D. apps, right? Create, Retrieve, Update, Delete. Right. Where it's basically forms and index lists and you're able to view, that kinda stuff, right? Whereas in retrospect, if I could go back then, and I wasn't having my like Rails coder hat on, I would have said, use Google Forms. Use Zapier or something to push that into a Google Sheet. Although that'll do it automatic with Google Forms. You know, push it into a spread sheet and then have a way to then send out an automated email after they do that with a link to PayPal or you know, some dumb shit like that, right? Yes, yes, yes, yes. That is really not sophisticated, but it solves that problem where the client, like the client in this case needs, this is what I need to get done, and they don't know. Like most people, you look out here in Boise, ask anyone like do you Zapier's a thing and that they can link all these different data things you do together? They say no. Like most people, most business people don't know this stuff exists. So you just say hey, I wanna learn enough about what I can do with a tool Zapier, an off the shelf tool and I'm just gonna glue things together and give them what they need. And then that'll at least fund you while you can then go and learn Python or learn whatever. I mean that's what I would do if I needed money and I wasn't technically skilled enough to be able to safely bring on a greenfield project and say, I'm gonna code you a Python project from scratch. Yes. So that's what I would do. Okay, so that's really great advice because people work backwards. Yeah. Which to them seems like the normal way, which is like go to college, go to college for four years, then go get your masters for like two to four years, then think about maybe contemplate getting a job, but probably still don't do that, 'cause that's crazy. And I feel like it's such a backwards approach. Where the job is the goal, or being able to provide value is a goal, but nobody spends time thinking about that most of the times. Well even great developers, I mean even great developers aren't even, I know really talented coders who do not ever think, how is the code I'm writing making an impact on the business that is using this code. Wow. You know a lot of them are just thinking I'm building a really, you know they geek out on object oriented coding and test driven development and that's all good. Like I remember when we started getting heavily into TDD, or Test Driven Development as an agency, I had clients who were trying to sell. And they were like, "Why should I pay you all this extra "money so you can write these test things? "Shouldn't your code work the first time?" Right? And it became difficult for us to, how do we sell testing? Yeah, what did you do? But then, Well here's what I did is I was talking to a friend of mine who was running also an agency, and he's like sell it as insurance. Like the idea is a good test suite on a code base is going to be that canary in a coal mine if new features that you've developed broke something else. And the most expensive part of software development which a lot of clients don't get, is the maintenance costs. Wow. Now the total cost of ownership is not always the building, it's the maintaining. So if you're adding new features and this is breaking that, you know that's, not only does that cost a lot more in development time, but you've got, if it's in production, if you've got customers using it who are getting error messages and this and that, and it's basically an insurance policy, where you're saying, we can safely and agilely develop new functionality in the future without needing to worry about, so basically you're buying insurance that will keep your long term costs down. So we sold it like that. Smart. Instead of saying yeah, we're gonna spend twice as much time so we can write these tests that are, like I get it. Clients are thinking why can't you write code that works the first time, right? 'Cause they don't know. And you can't blame them. It's just I think a lot of us get kind of arrogant and they're like, "They should understand the value "of testing and they should know why we "object oriented design, "why we do these craftsmanship things." Like in the Ruby community there's a big push on code craftsmanship, which is good, but I think people get so immersed in the Yeah code craftsmanship. Yeah, and I think the reason developers tend to sell themselves on the technicals are, that's what they're, it's comfortable, it's safe. Yes. I've been doing coding for the last many years, I'm good at it, I'm not confident in my ability to help businesses, but I'm confident in my ability to write code, so I'm gonna focus just on the code stuff. And then they wonder, why am I being price chopped and why am I you know, struggling so much? And it's because, if you can focus on what is my code doing? And it unfortunately becomes a thing where you need to realize, and this is, I think, hard for people to sometimes get, that no one cares about your code. No one cares about any of that. They just want the result. Heartbreaking. Yeah it is. Heartbreaking. It is if it's your craft. You wanna talk designers. When you tell designers about like, no one cares about your design, they just wanna know how does this design increase conversions or whatever else? Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah. They get very sometimes, yeah. Brilliant and I love that because eventually a lot of this stuff has to tie down to results. A lot of the people who are paying these developers are business owners, Correct. Who need some kind of return on their investment, but I feel that the developer who's competing and struggling with a developer in Pakistan or India or Bangladesh, charging $7 an hour is because they're Well they're commoditizing, I mean it's, think of it like, so we're by a street, right? There's probably a gas station somewhere. You know often gas stations, there's one across the street from the other, right? Yeah. If this one's 20 bucks a gallon and that one's two, why would you ever go to the $20 one, right? Yes. And that's why if you're selling yourself as a Python developer and you're saying I want a hundred bucks an hour to write Python code, and the client's like, "But, there's these guys over here, "who're $7 an hour to write Python code. "Why should I pay you?" Yeah. And it's like how do you answer that, right? You're saying, I am selling a commodity which is Python code and then the client rightfully thinks, well what's the going rate for Python code? I mean a lot of the, I don't do consulting anymore, but when I did, a lot of what I did would be going to people's email marketing automation stuff, writing a lot of JavaScript code and writing copy. Email copy. But I didn't sell that. I sold like how I'm gonna help them onboard their clients better, and sell more stuff and this and that, but technically I was writing a lot of JavaScript, I was doing some markup stuff on their site and some copy writing. And then gluing it together in like an email marketing app. But I wasn't saying, and a lot of it, I mean if you read like the last one I did was $89,000 for something that took about three weeks. Wow. Which the equivalent hourly rate of that is insane and if they were thinking what's the going rate of a copy writer? But instead, I positioned it as here's, we've talked through your numbers, I've seen your company, here's what I think you could be doing and here's how I think it could make you six figures plus within the first year. So then I come in and I bring in my price and I'm an investment at that point. I'm showing you're spending this, but here's what you're gonna be getting because this is a gap in what you have set up. And I think getting confident in people's abilities to be able to affect businesses that way, that's the struggle that I think people have. Got it. Okay. And so if I wanna, if I want to like okay, I understand maybe I'm a developer, I'm watching this or maybe I'm a beginner wanting to get into freelancing watching this, and I'm going okay, makes sense that I need to be able to position myself like an investment, show people there's an ROI correlated with what efforts I'm gonna be bringing in, but now maybe they're thinking, what amount of time am I spending actually learning coding and increasing my coding skills, versus learning business and marketing skills? So how would that be broken up for somebody who's new? Yeah good question. So yeah the balance of where do you spend your time? I think at the end of the day I mean I would treat both, I mean I still, I'm a coder by heart, but now I'm running a software company and all these other things, but I still code and I enjoy it. I mean it's therapeutic for me. I think a lot of people who are drawn into that still like it, right? Yes, yeah. So I think at the end of the day, the easy out, the easy route with consulting would be to get subcontracted full time through an agency. Let them get the clients, let them deal with the clients. You just sit at the coffee shop with your headphones on and write code. And that's the thing, but the problem then is, they're not your clients, they're the agency's clients and you should, everyone should be a business of one, regardless of what you do, I think. That should be the goal. So I think it's worth your while to always be thinking well why am I getting paid for this? Why are they paying me for this code? And getting better, and this doesn't mean you need to be full on business consultant. You can still be a developer who is just pragmatic in saying, "Look, I wanna know why you're paying me "and what do you need to get from me?" What is the outcome, the business outcome you need? 'Cause the end goal might be, I remember one of my early consulting clients, they were hiring us to build a thing that would match make bars and restaurants with musicians. Okay. Right? So like if you've got a bar or coffee shop and you wanna have a guitarist playing music, it would be a way to do that, right? Like a marketplace. And early on he wanted, he was like, "Oh well what do marketplaces probably have?" 'Cause he'd seen ones online. And he wanted private messaging and groups and stuff. And I was like at that point, I was like, "Look, what you need is you need validation "that this works." Right? Like you don't have any users on your platform to message each other, so why do you want messaging day one? So I was able to help affect, I was able to reduce the scope early on and focus more on what should be built, 'cause the client just thought look, I have my ear to, I'm reading hacker news, I'm reading all this stuff about like startups that are failing and why they're failing and what's dong well and these new frameworks coming out and the heart bleed Wordpress issue or no what was it, anyway, like all these different things, right? That was, I think with Nginx, but all these different things that the majority of business owners don't know. So just the fact that I have my ear to the ground in that sense is helpful to people. And yeah, at the end of the day my job is just to think I wanna always be making myself more valuable by getting better at coding and a lot of getting better at coding comes with experience, obviously that's the ultimate thing. But also learning new frameworks and seeing where the wind's blowing and seeing oh Laravel's a big thing, I should go maybe check that out. Or this or that. So that should be something we're always doing, continuing education, but I think just the fact, the best business education I think you can get is to start just going to like the, you go to meetup.com, go find out where business owners congregate, whether it's Chamber of Commerce afterparty things that they do, or like the networking events and conferences like this. What do you think about if they just offered some advice for even, offered to help even for free in the start? Yeah I mean, I don't like giving anything of value away for free individually. I think it's fine at scale. So I don't mind, you could do like maybe you do a workshop. Maybe you do a, some sort of digital thing, like a, My friend Amy Hoy did a thing on, when Rails came out back in 2006 or seven I think is when she did it, she did a free PDF about how the internals of Rails works. It was just a graphical PDF thing. And she just learned this stuff through whatever, I mean look at people like Chris Coyier of CSSTricks, right? Like any time you Google CSS related he pops up. But if you look at his backstory, he was teaching himself CSS and blogging about what he was learning. Wow, yeah. And that's how he came to be what he's doing now. So I think the best thing you could do would just be to, even if you don't have readers or you don't think you have readers or anything like that, just document yourself and put it online. Today I learned this or I had a client and they asked about this and here what, you know and eventually you have this monster thing of content that ends up making you authoritative to some people and that's another great way to kinda become a premium consultant is to build up an audience and do things like that. I know Pat Flynn had this lead exam thing, ya know? Yeah. Before he started Nathan Berry also talked. That's what Nathan did. Yeah, we all do that. We all, I mean half of the reason I just gave a workshop here and was asked to speak here, was 'cause all I do always, talk about what I'm doing. What I'm learning and how this isn't working the way I thought it would, and oh this is what ended up working and so on. And all this stuff didn't come overnight, it's just a culmination of learning in public. Yes, I agree. Yeah. Okay, so for a lot of the beginner developers or developers who are experienced, I think freelancing it's a really good way to get into kinda the tips you shared. Like maybe even get in a nontechnical way in the start just so you can kinda get the freelancing skill down, the business skills down. Learn to sell. Yeah, and you start really focusing on the value, right? For example I had this one student who joined our program at Profitable Programmer, he got a client to build their website, and then he's like trying to build her website, and he's spending so much time using it, trying to build it with Python and Django, and I asked him, "What does she need?" and he said, "Contact page and about me page." Like use Squarspace. I'm like, "Why don't you just fucking use Squarespace?" Yeah. (laughs) And then he kinda got in a fight with me almost, where he's like, well that's what you know Python and Django and that's what the course was about. And I'm like, "Who cares what the course was about?" This is what you should do. It'll take you five minutes. Yep, at the end of the day Django and Squarespace are both emitting HTML. And Squarespace probably does it a bit easier, and a bit, in this case like you said, if they need a marketing site, there's nothing dynamic about it. Like what do you need Python for? Ya know? Right. Like there's nothing, you don't need a proper CMS in that sense. Yes. But yeah, I mean you should still, if a client needs that genuinely, then by all means, yeah. Yeah, and I do think there's a bit of like them having to detach, like oh, because I'm learning this skill it must be this way. Must be done that way, yep. Honestly when I started freelancing I kinda got started very early, like three to six months into my just picking up coding. I posted ads on Craig's List for tutoring. Somebody called me and they were like "We need a login system, authentication system," like blah blah blah, they're like, "Can you do it?" I'm like, "I'm your fucking man." Yeah. I had no idea what I was doing at that point. That's when I actually started learning and I went. So Pat Flynn was talking about just in time learning. So that really resonated with me. And a lot of what you're talking about, it sounds like take the practical steps first, maybe even start earning an income first and then right? Okay, now for people who wanna increase their freelancing rate, so people who wanna be able to charge premium pricing and since there are a lot of developers who aren't like freelancers yet, I think what would be a valuable perspective for them is how do you, how are you at some point able to charge more than say $35 an hour or $50 an hour or $150 an hour? So they can kinda visualize and see what that might look like, so starting today, they can start to frame themselves in that way? Yeah, good question, so easiest would be don't bill for time. I think that's the, I think the problem with billing for time is that you're ultimately reducing it down to how the sausage is made in the factory, right? It's ultimately, it's not focused on the outcome, it's focused on the time required to deliver an outcome. I always butcher the, there's this example people give of like some IBM consultant in the 50s who goes into this thing, The hammer? The hammer, hits the thing and he charges 50 grand. Right. And they're like, "Why are you charging so much money to," He's like, "All the experience that went into knowing "where it is I'm gonna hammer." Right? Yep. And then Pablo Picasso something like that too, he throws his painting in the garbage or something, a lady comes and picks it up and he asks her to pay for it. And she's like, "You just threw it in the garbage." or whatever and she's like, "I saw you, "took you only one minute." He said, "No it took me like 15 years." Right, right, exactly exactly. So my condensed answer to this is always, I have kind of a process that I guess I teach where the first step is I call it Socratic questioning, but it's basically just a way to find out why are you here? So peel back the layers. So they come to you and they say they need a website built. All right, well, why do you need this website built? Well the old website is not working, so they're firing the old website. Well, why are they firing, like what specifically is making it not work and what led them to this point where they woke up today and reached out to somebody like me? So try to figure out exactly what is the business case behind what they're bringing to the table. 'Cause they're typically not bringing, unless they're coming to you as a consultant, they're coming and saying I need a new website built or I need an app built or something like that. So if you can figure out why. And then I move into trying to, what I call quantifying the financial upside, which is all right so, if this does change, what affect with this have on your business? So the example I like to give is there was a, I'm probably gonna struggle with some of the numbers, 'cause it was a while back, but basically I had a student of mine who ended up selling a redesign for a rehab clinic. Okay. Right? So he was thinking all right so I'm gonna sell them on a new website for this clinic. Designer or? Designer developer. I think he was using an off shelf template and just coding it all in Wordpress or something. Got it. So what he did was he worked with them and started with, so tell me about your business. All right, you get people come in for drug rehabilitation and so on, what is the value of a patient for you? So if you get a new, somebody checks themselves in, what's that worth? And it was something like $30,000, right? Okay, yeah. So then he kinda worked backward and said, "Well, I can't affect that. "I can't help them with pricing that. "So I need to kinda work backwards and find out, "where do I find intersection with me?" So then he asked, "All right so how do "you get a new patient?" And they're like, "Well, you know, people call in "or fill out our contact form." And what he was trying to get at is what percentage of people who do that turn into a patient. Yes. For them it was 10%. Wow. So he's like all right, so a lead is effectively worth three grand, $3,000 for a lead, right? (Qazi whistles) So then he drilled even further and he basically said, "So if the job of the website is not just to be a website "it's to generate leads that turn into $3,000 contacts, yeah "that's my goal here, right? "Is to help you, if I could get you one more lead a month, "that's $36,000 net new revenue over the next year." And he focused on that. Wow. He focused entirely on that. Wow yes. So he ended up quoting them 20 grand for a five page website or something like that. Which seems insane, Yep. But he anchored what he charged against that and he wasn't selling a five page website, he was selling $3,000 a month in net new revenue. Yes, yeah. Right? So I know a lot of people hear that especially, developer types, they're like, "Oh that's cheating, "that's bullshit, blah blah blah." But at the end of the day that's what people, that's what, the job of the website is not just to throw another skin on something. It's to say, they want a new website because they're hoping the website will get them more patients. Yep. So if I can figure out how that deal flow works, I can then sell to that and say, my job isn't to build you a new website, my job is to get you more leads. Wow. You know, and focus on that. Yep. And that's what he ended up doing and that's why everyone else quoting much lower prices. Like the guy, it's funny, I gave that story a lot and years ago I was doing my first video course and I just posted on Facebook like, hey, I'm looking to do like a four or five hour video course, anyone local, do you know anyone local who does video editing and stuff and can come in and film it? I got all these local people who full time day jobs and stuff, they're like yeah, I can edit stuff, I charge like 30 bucks an hour to edit or whatever else. And I was talking to all of them. And then I had a student of mine who had heard that I was looking to do a video course, 'cause I was tweeting it. And he's like, "Hey, I want to come in and direct "your next video course and I wanna tell you "when you're going off on a tangent" Wow. "And when you're screwing up and all this stuff. "My goal is to help you make it so your students "are like, this was badass and I'm gonna tell everyone "I can about this. "And that we're gonna put together a badass trailer "and it's gonna be like you're gonna get more sales "and you're gonna get more referrals and this and that." And I was like this guy's speaking my language. Wow. I love that, yes. This is what I wanna hear. And I paid him $22,000 (Qazi whistling) for a video course, which at 30 an hour for however many hours of editing would have been a lot cheaper, had I just said, I need somebody to come in and just sit in front of me with a camera and then go to Premier and edit it for a bunch, you know whatever. With him, he's saying, yeah, I'm doing all that, but my job is to help you make an amazing product. Wow. Not just edit video. So I think that's an example of where, that's what I wanna hear, 'cause to me he's low risk. I don't need to worry that I'm gonna make a stupid video course that doesn't make any sense to people. And I go and I ramble and this and that. He's like, "I wanna keep you from yourself. "Protect you from yourself by making sure "you build the right thing." And I paid him, I didn't even flinch. It was like this That's incredible. You know he knew, he's like, "So what are you gonna be "charging for the course?" And I told him and he's like, "All right, so you only need "like 40 new sales to make this worth while." Yes. That makes it really simple for Yeah, right, exactly, yeah. And now you are, you are a founder of a SaaS company. Yes. So now this is something that a lot of developers wanna be able to do, it's their dream to be able to build their own software as a service company, build their own product and be able to actually sell it. So, this must be like one really amazing experience for you to actually build it out. But how did you build it and how do you market this now? Yeah, it's a good question, so the SaaS is called RightMessage, which is just website personalization and conversion software. But what's interesting about the backstory is remember I'd mentioned I build in epublic, I learn in public. So I was learning about, at the time I was using Drip. I was learning about what I could do with it for email marketing and so on. I'm using ConvertKit now, but that's a different story. But what I did was I didn't say I wanna build software. I was doing it for myself with custom code on my own site. It was kinda working, right? I was tweeting about it, I was sharing it on public, in blog posts and so on, talking about it with friends of mine and so on and so forth. Eventually that got some companies saying, "Hey I'd love to talk to you about doing that for us." So I mentioned I don't do consulting anymore, but I was, a few years back, doing consulting on a limited scale to say I wanna see if what worked for me, worked for others. The stuff that I covered like today. So I had about 10 clients over the span of about a year and a half who I did this with. I individually sold them on personalization, right? I sold them on that. That led to a video course that I did. So I got people who were seeing that I was doing this, and they were like, "Can't afford you as a consultant, "but can we, do you have any thoughts "about teaching me how to do this kind of stuff?" So I did a video course called "Mastering Drip", which is on automation personalization. I have that course actually. Yep, so I did that, right? And then from that, the biggest complaint there was, all right I get all this, but I'm a marketer and how do I, you gave me some sample code, but what do I do with this sample code, right? Yeah. So that's like RightMessage or my software product didn't come out of a vacuum. Instead it came from doing a lot of consulting around the same problem where I was selling it in a high touch way, and then I moved low touch with the video course, where now I'm selling the same outcome or similar outcome, learn it versus I'll do it for you. But, I did that a bunch of times and sold a few hundred copies of that. And that finally gave me the confidence to say it is worthwhile building up a team, writing a lot of code and making it so, like I would not have, 'cause the mistake I made was I had a SaaS before this, that I started in 2011 called Planscope which is a project management tool. Mm got it. That was built for freelancers and agencies because I ran an agency and I hated the tools I used. So I did what most agency owners eventually do and they write their own, right tool. But I jumped straight into software and didn't think about how I'd sell it. And it just petered along and never did well. I think at the most it did I think four or $5,000 net in revenue, but that was, it took, I sold it in 2016. But I started in 2011, and five years in it was only doing like four or five grand a month. Wow. So the mistake I made there was I wasn't focused, with what I'm doing now, I focused on selling in a high priced consulting engagement, the same outcome that my $79 a month SaaS delivers. Wow. It's the same outcome. I was selling it in a very, I'll do it all for you, I'm a consultant, I'll do it for you. I'll write the code, I'll think through your segmentation all this stuff. And then I shifted to I'll teach you how to do this yourself, 'cause I have experience. Yeah. I've done this for 10 different companies now. I've been around the block in that sense, and I can teach you how you should do this yourself. And then it turned into I wanna build software that will do this with you. Got it, wow. So kinda cover that full spectrum. Okay, that's incredible. So basically we went from like beginner where they should invest their time. So if you're a complete beginner, like actually start off maybe doing business stuff, learning about local businesses and focusing even on earning the income first and figuring out those skills and then jumping deeper and deeper into more technical coding. In order to be able to increase your income, to be able to charge a higher price you have to come off as investment, you have to be an investment. There should be an ROI on you. And not focusing so much on our own features and like what kind of tools, bells and whistles we can provide. And we even touched base on building a SaaS or being able to market it. Which I think for most people that's something they aspire to do eventually. I mean I know we have a few people who actually have a SaaS. Yep, awesome, cool. Who are doing really great with it. But that's a lot fewer of the people, but that's just something that I think a lot of developers wanna think about. And I think if they can think of it in terms of how can we provide value and reverse engineer it like you did, I think then it's much more likely to be successful. You know I think that's why ConvertKit has been successful and they're doing $16 million a year. And I think that's why RightMessage is getting so much. I think a lot of people are jumping on it because you're providing a lot of value and there's a lot of human touch in there too. Right. Right? Like you are personally jumping in and helping a lot of people. I think that's what ConvertKit did really well. It did, early on. It won't be a long term thing, but it needs to, you need to do the things that don't scale. Paul Graham says, "Do the things that don't scale first." Which is what you should be doing. Yep, and even Gary V. says that, he says, "Scale the unscalable." Yeah. Actually a lot. So I think that is really important. I think developers sometimes even try to run away from human stuff. Well people wanna have the little, they wanna have their app that they built. Yeah. With a little signup page, and they wanna just wake up and have people paying for it that are paying so they could jus code on it all day. Yes. And they don't wanna talk to anyone. And unfortunately, if you wanna do it right, you need to start with this dialogue before you can turn it into a monologue. Yep. And that's a safer approach. I was your quintessential typical developer who was like, I wanna get out of consulting, I'm sit of clients, I wanna just build an app and I just wanna sit back and code on my app all day, and get to play with cool frameworks. And that's why that business kinda failed. (laughs) Yeah, so I love that, and this is much more of a risk free approach 'cause you're building things, you're reverse engineering. You kinda know it's gonna be profitable or successful before you even do it, but it's not a quick thing, it does take a long time so I think that developing your skills as a developer, being in the market for a while, being a consultant and really getting those skills down and then eventually building a, you know. And multiple software as service type of businesses to finally get to the point where you are at. Absolutely. So thank you so much Brennan, this was awesome. Guys, I've been following Brennan's material actually since 2016, I've learned a lot from him personally. I learned a lot from Double Your Freelancing Rate and I think that if you're following me, and you are a freelancer and you wanna be able to increase your income, you definitely wanna go to doubleyourfreelancingrate.com. Doubleyourfreelancing.com. Doubleyourfreelancing.com. I have a redirect though, but yeah the main website's doubleyourfreelancing.com Okay so doubleyourfreelancing.com, go there, check out some of his material, it's incredible. It's really gonna help you to be able to charge what you're worth and charge higher premium pricing. And just wanna say thank you so much for your time. Yeah, thanks man, thanks for having me. Any last words? No, I just hopefully it's been helpful and yeah, I mean reach out on Twitter. I'm Brennan Dunn if you wanna say hi or just have any questions. Yep so reach out on Twitter, I'm sure he'll reply back to you. With that said guys, thank you so much for watching, this is Qazi, this is Brennan. We love your face, and as always, I'll see you in the next video. ♪ Coding all day man, know I'm sayin' ♪ ♪ Coding all day man, know I'm sayin' ♪ ♪ Coding all day man, know I'm sayin' ♪ ♪ Coding all day man, know I'm sayin' ♪ ♪ I'm coding what ♪