So the question is, I want to start coding but I don't want to waste time on doing something that won't get me a job. This my friend is what I call 'Analysis Paralysis'. This was a question I got on one of my recent YouTube videos, and it makes me go crazy, this type of stuff but this type of stuff is what 99% of the world deal with. And what I wanna tell you on that is you would much rather make the wrong decision, and get started than make the right decision but wait for a really long time. You see, life is made up of not one decision but the sum of all of your decisions, combined. The only way to improve your decision making ability and the path you choose, is through making decisions. Just the same way that I got better at public speaking or making videos, or programing. You want to get better at whatever it is that you're doing by doing it a lot. I like to say, the only way to get to quality is quantity. And this is a concept I actually call 'Quanlity'. And what this essentially means is, do a lot of what you're doing and then you're gonna start improving it. The only way to get to quality is through quantity. The only way is through. When I am faced with a problem, lets say public speaking. The way I get better at it's by doing a lot of it. Whether its making videos or maybe I wanna improve in coding the only that is happen is through me coding a lot. Me making a lot of (mumbles) commits on my GitHub. Everyday putting in the time, the effort and the energy to do that. So for you, what I recommend, is see life is a sum of all of your decisions, not just a few decisions and your only way to improve (mumbles) quality of your decisions is through making lots of decisions. The only way I improve through programming is through making tons of mistakes and failing fast. Now I know more than a lot of people, is exactly what will be wrong with my code, if I do things a certain way. That actually helps me become a better programmer. The same thing comes to making decisions in life. You would rather make wrong decisions really, really fast make lots of them, then you're ability to make decision will improve, your quality of decisions will improve and by you making tons of decisions, you will cut down your decision making abilities time from a decade to a year. You will be as killed at making decisions as you would be if you waited 10 years to make a decision. I'll give you, a analogy. Most people think if they just think long enough they'll come up with a right solution. Absolutely fucking wrong! Where this became very clear for me, was in chess. Chess is not a physical sport, chess is a mental sport and chess is all about having perfect information. There's 16 pieces that I have, there's 16 that you have and we both have perfect information. Meaning that every single move, its 100% possible (chuckles) that you can make the best move in every position because you have perfect information. You could look at it, you could take one day to think about your next move, you could take two days, you could take five days, 50 hours, you could take a month a year, or five years. But, the interesting thing is, that you will still not make the best moves every move. Even if you took one to two years per move. This is when you realize, that you're not hindered by time. Time is not what will help you improve. You have to play more chess games, you have to learn more about chess to actually improve. Then, even in the future, even in five minutes you could find a pretty good quality move. Grandmasters can find way better moves than you can in probably 20 seconds , than even if you spent a month on a move, to figure it out. With that said, the same applies to your real life. If you don't make a lot of decisions, you don't fuck up in coding and programming a lot, really, really fast you're gonna be stuck at exactly where you're at and this is the concept of 'Analysis Paralysis'. Most people either stuck in coding and not improving is 'cause they're trying to find the perfect resource, the prefect tutorial, the perfect guide, the perfect project the perfect place to apply, whatever it may be and that's why they either never improve, they never get a job, they never get a client because they haven't even take those fucking shots! Its one thing to take a shot, and then miss it versus never taking a shot, then you have a hundred percent chance of missing it. Forget about this bullshit of making the best decision or there's a best coding project, or there is a best way to not waste time coding. What else are you gonna be doing anyway? You're gonna be wasting time doing something also stupid. Might as well waste time while coding, working on a project you'd think is not correct, then finding out why it wasn't correct a few days into it it or a few weeks into it, then course, correct and move on. But you have to make wrong decisions really, really fast. This year, the clever programmer business is gonna grow like crazy! The audience is gonna grow like crazy because you know why? In 2018 I tried to be a big time perfectionist, plan everything out, make it so planned out and everything. And that I realized is that, that's actually slowing us down. So this year ... 'Cause I was like, what is gonna be the perfect course that I can make for everybody? Now I don't care about perfect, I'm gonna keep making what I believe in and I'll keep going, and I'll keep failing fucking fast. I'll fail faster than almost anybody, which will make this company 'Clever Programmer' grow a lot faster than everybody else (mumbles) too. Its gonna make the subscribers grow more, its gonna help you more, and its gonna allow the business to grow faster. We're gonna produce more courses than we've ever had we're gonna produce more video than we (mumbles) ever had and we're just gonna be stronger and winners! Even in the last few weeks, we've been getting incredible results, by students and they're hitting us up and they're like "We're winning, we're winning. We're winning!" Ant those are the action takers we need. Jubara Abdullah messages me, he's like, "you're changing my life, I'm getting high level mentorship from your earn 1K program and I did not even think this was possible." I'm surrounded by fucking geniuses, so he's getting a win. (mumbles) Getting a win. This one girl, her name is Hager Mahmoud I believe, I hope I didn't butcher it. But she's on her Instagram, we'll put her link here or whatever, you can check out her profile. But she's been doing a coding challenge, she's on day five and she's doing a double 39 day challenge, which means she's doing (mumbles) exercise, everyday and she is coding every single day. And she's currently on day five, tomorrow will be day six. (weights dropped) Everyday I go to her IG and when she posts that she did it, I go and support her I tag some of my teammates, like Rachel or Frankie or Aron in the post and (mumbles) we all push her and hold her accountable to these results. Those are the winners and action takers we want to build at Clever Programmer, we want to be surrounded by and that we want to become. You need to become a action taker, quit dillydallying and thinking ... there is a best way to go about something. There is no best way, just do the wrong way as fast as possible. And that's really what's exciting, right? Because if you knew in the ending, it would not be fun. Its like knowing the ending to a movie. You wanna go down a path, maybe a dark path, maybe a path, a road, not traveled enough, go and discover it, figure it out, see what's going on. And then comeback, lesson learned, improve from there. So don't be scared of wasting time, just get in there start coding today, and actually join us in the 30 day challenge of Instagram. And you can actually put me in your story, make a story, you code, take a picture of it from your Instagram story, tag me @cleverqazi. Say something like "30 day coding challenge" I'll blast you on my story, I'll probably put you on this YouTube channel as well but lets put the Instagram thing right over here @cleverqazi And this way you could hold yourself accountable and actually get shit done, become a part of all of the action takers. That's what I want for you, I love your face. As always, this is Qazi and I'll see 'you' in the next video (punching speed bag) (Hip Hip music)