Hey you, what's up, this is Qazi from cleverprogrammer.com and I got a great question, I think by Marcos Aylman, I really hope I didn't butcher your name, but he asked me in one of my previous videos, I can't seem to find the specific comment, but the question goes, how do I stop procrastination, and that's what this video is gonna answer, so let's jump right into it. (pumping dance music) Procrastination is a big problem for everybody, including me, including you, and including the whole world out there, procrastination is something that just exists. Now there are many techniques and things that you can watch on TED talks, and wherever else, that talk about some little hack that you can do to avoid procrastination, but honestly I think it's something that exists and you can't make it go away. Here's one ultimate hack that I use to avoid procrastination, and I can tell you this works. Here's the hack, fall in love with what you do, okay. Absolutely become passionate about what you're doing, if you develop, if you have fun when you're coding and you're enjoying everything that you're doing, and the app that you're building, which is why I focus so much on 80% fun and 20% focus on learning new skills, and what I mean by 80% fun is take the code, take this knowledge that you've learned about coding, and have 80% fun with it, build your own things with it, break things with it, like nothing's gonna happen, go crazy, right? And that's a fun part that I'm talking about. And then the other 20% is constantly learning new skills. The fun part is gonna help you cement that knowledge, and build that passion. When you build that passion, there's no such thing as procrastination, you know why? Here's the secret, that is your procrastination. The coding, that is your ultimate procrastination. When you actually want to slack off, that's what you do. Like the other day, I was with my friend, and I was like, hey man, we should go play snooker, that'd be really cool. But then you know what we did? We actually ended up procrastinating the snooker playing, because we were gonna actually enjoy creating YouTube videos more, helping develop the business more, clever programmer, and we were gonna code. That's now my procrastination, like, that's what I do during procrastination, instead of scrolling through Facebook, and blah, blah, blah, that's how much passion and love I've developed for it over time, that that's what I want to do when, that's like my guilty pleasure at this point. Like if you're about to make out with another girl or another guy, what, have you ever had the problem of procrastination? No you haven't, you know why? Because that's something you want to do so damn bad, right? You can't procrastinate that, just like that if you develop a passion about something, you can't procrastinate that, that's how I'm gonna answer this question, and leave it at that. Again, thank you guys for watching this, I love your faces off. This is Ask Qazi, Episode Two, thank you guys so much for watching, I love you, and I'll see you in the next video.