Hey, guys, what's up? So in this video I wanna talk about primitive data types. Now we're getting into the adult programming stuff, okay? Getting out of the little bit of the baby stuff. Even though it's not baby, but, you know, let's just submit it. So, let's talk about primitive data types. What are they? (mumbles) Let's start out with some basic ones first, okay? And I also want to clarify something about variables for you guys. So, you can't start a variable with a number, okay? So if you said 5 is equal to, I don't know, 'hello', right? The string 'hello', you're gonna get an error. So you gotta start it, you gotta start your variable with a letter. Now you also can't start it with symbols. You can't say something like this is equal to 'hello', 'kay? You're gonna get an error. You can combine underscores with your variables. You can say hi_hello something like this, okay? And that would work for you. Okay, primitive data types, what are they? So, if I have this thing in the green that you see, that is a string, alright? So, in this video, I think we can just keep it like this. 'Kay. So that's a string 'hello' Anything with a quotes around it, and you can also put double quotes if you want, this is a string data type. This terminology is very important to remember. Then you have your integers. Integers are anything that is like this 4.3 (mumbles) 4 5 , 2 Those are all your integers, obviously. Things that have decimal points, in math, they are called decimal numbers. In python, we call them floating numbers. Okay? So you have floating numbers. Like 455.5 ; four hundred and... 354.90 Okay? These are your floating numbers. So, that's another important thing to remember. So, this was just a little primer on primitive data types. Just so when I use this terminology, you guys don't get confused, or like want to throw things at your screen, right? Like, "I don't know what he's talking about!" Boom! Just, throw your mouse or your socks, don't do that. I'm telling you what they are here, and feel free to look them up a little bit more so you can understand more about them. But this is some of the basic ones we're going to be dealing with, and in the next video I'm gonna talk about things like what is a list? What is a dictionary? So we're gonna go over those as well, m'kay? Just to give you a little foreshadowing into it for you advanced people there. You wanna learn more, right? You want to overachieve. A list is basically something that holds multiple things at once. So, for example, I can say 'banana' and 'apple' and 'oranges', like this, right? And at the start I can say x is equal to. I hate x. I hate one letter variables, and most python people do as well because it's usually a sign of bad coding. Always try to make your names very relevant. Get into that habit right now. Promise yourself. Cross your heart. I don't care what you have to do, but work hard on variable naming. Even if it slows you down sometimes. So no x, no y. Only if you have to. It's gonna make your code really hard to read, and when you're reasoning through your logic, you're gonna not understand what you were doing. So, let's say, I don't know, fruits is a good variable name. fruits. And now, if I call fruits, you see a list of that thing. Okay, I was talking about primitive data types, but I got ahead of myself. I started talking about some data structures like a list and dictionaries. We'll cover all that later. Be patient. I'll see you guys in the next video.