Okay, in this video, I wanna talk about the turtle. So, "What is the turtle?" You might be asking. Well, we're gonna find out. Before we get into some of the more boring or the technical stuff, which is actually really fun, but before we get into that, I want you to be able to visualize the code. I want you to be able to see that what we type and what we do, you can do something fun with it right away, okay? And, this is not just something for, maybe, kids, this something that's gonna be very valuable, I don't care how old you are, even if you're two hundred years old because visualization is a key tool. So if I show you that now, I think it's gonna benefit you in the long run, and also sometimes when you're confused about things, you can try this thing out that I'm gonna about to show you right now, to maybe make those examples and concepts more concrete that you might be a little hazy about. Without further ado, let's get started. So, what we are gonna do is start doing something with the turtle. So, I want you to do "import turtle" as your first line. Okay? Import, this secret command here, what it means is that some programmers who stayed up really late at night and wrote code and ate Ramen noodle, and that's all they did, they spent hundreds and thousands of hours writing all this code for you, and you just get to steal it by typing in "import." So basically think of it like you have amazing powers at the tip of your fingers by using this command "import," and you get all those powers, okay? Let's do my turtle is equal to turtle dot turtle. Okay? And, what we're gonna do is we're gonna say my turtle dot, I don't know, let's do something simple like move, or sorry, forward 100. Alright, so let's see what just happened. Alright, what is going on there, right? Let's close that; let's start it again. So, I'm gonna write this line again, and we're gonna kinda do like a slow motion, okay? We're just gonna play it out again. So, I said my turtle, right after this first line that I did, right? My turtle showed up here, okay? Just to make it even clearer for you guys, I'm gonna start this thing again, and I'm just gonna write the first line that I wrote. So, you can see, my turtle showed up, okay? Now, let's say I'm gonna do my turtle dot move, or sorry, I keep saying, "move." Let's do forward, and let's do 100, yeah? Let's try it; let's see what happens. Did you just see that thing go to the right? So, that thing went to the right. Now, what if I wanted to move it up? Well, what you need to do is, essentially, it's like... Okay, it's like this. I want you to look at my face right now. So if I'm the turtle, and I'm going in this direction here, I will go like this much, and then, in order for me to turn left, what I need to do is first turn 90 degrees left, like this, and then to move forward, I just go forward, right? Like that. Okay? So we're gonna do that with our turtle. So let's do my turtle dot left, how many degrees? 90 degrees. 'Kay? Now, if you notice the turtle, now it's facing towards the left, and it's looking at going up. So we simply do my turtle dot forward 100 again. And you can see my turtle is right over here. Now let's do some more fun stuff. Let's say my turtle dot right 50, and let's say my turtle dot forward again 100, and you can see we're starting to make interesting shapes now, right? Like, what is that? Maybe it could be a shirt, it's a ladder, I don't know. I don't know what that is. But, here's what I want you to do. I want you to create a square with the turtle, okay? And I want you to copy whatever code that you wrote, and I want you to paste it in the comments. So, either if you're watching this on YouTube or if you're watching this on my website, on Clever Programmer, I want you to go to "Exercise 2 The Turtle" on cleverprogrammer.com, and I want you to literally copy whatever code you have and paste it here, okay? I read every single one of your comments, and I will go through it, and I will comment on it. And other people will get to see what you're up to as well. Okay? Also, on my website, I have linked you guys to a blog that says "Read this on how to do more fun things "with the turtle!" Okay? So if you go to this blog, it'll teach you what more fun things you can do, okay? So it teaches you how to create stars and some really fun shapes, okay? So, that is it for this video. I will see you in the next video.