Hey you, in this video I'm gonna be showing you the top four programming languages to learn in 2019 to get a job without a college degree. The way that I've ranked these languages, just like my last video. They're based on three things Number one. The time it takes even an absolute beginner to go from complete zero and ultimately getting a job without needing a college degree. Number two, the job market. Now this is the most important one you guys, this is what you're here for, the salary, how much money are you making. And number three, productivity. How fast can you go from conception of an idea to a completely coded application that another person can use. Lastly, I'll be showing you the Conor McGregor and the Khabib of the programming languages. Oh, by the way, I have a picture with Khabib. And I'll also reveal to you the programming language that has officially been Googled more than Kim Kardashian. So without any further ado, let's jump right into it. (intense music) This is Rafeh Qazi also known as Papa Python from cleverprogrammer.com. Papa Python is officially my brand new title. So, now we're going to cover the top four programming languages to learn in 2019 to get a job without needing a college degree. Number four, C++. I got a lotta heat for not putting this one in my last video, so I decided to put it in this video. Now, this programming language is very powerful, people from software development all the way to game development are using it. If you've ever heard of the engine called Unity, that's using C++, and if you can program in C++, you can also use Unity to create awesome games. However, it's a difficult programming language to get started with. It's kinda like if you wanted to learn how to swim and your big brother just takes you and throws you in the ocean, and he's like, go figure it out. So C++, just to recap, great programming language, great salary, not good to start off with. And the salary for C++, a $115,000 a year. Number three, Swift. Swift is a native iOS programming language used to create things in the App Store. So how freaking cool is that, imagine you are going through your iPhone and you go to the App Store, and when you download stuff all of that is made using Swift. Swift also comes from the C programming languages, so it came from Objective C, and then C++ happened and all that. So it's similar to C. Now if you know C++ you're gonna be able to learn Swift pretty quickly. Con for this is the same as C++, because it comes from the C family, it's naturally a lot harder to start off with. If I'm using technical terms, you wanna start off with the more dynamic programming language, this is static, which makes it harder to learn as a beginner. Now Swift is really good for freelancing work, entrepreneurial work, if you wanna build your own startup. And it's really good for getting a fulltime job. The average salary of a Swift developer is $110,000 per year, according to indeed.com. Number two, JavaScript. Now, who I'm introducing you to, I like to call the Conor McGregor of programing. How should I describe JavaScript? It's awesome, it's cool, it has style. It's super popular, it's at the tip of everybody's tongue, it's always trending, it wears a nice suit and it's the most popular when it comes to web development. Now, I'm gonna talk about, not such good sides of JavaScript. Like Conor McGregor, JavaScript keeps changing a lot. So, Conor McGregor going to boxing, coming back to UFC. JavaScript, it always has a lotta new things coming out which completely changed its language. So if you're a beginner, yes it's an easy language to learn. It's a lot easier to learn than Swift, it's a lot easier to learn than C++. But, there's so many ways of doing the same thing that it can make you fall into traps and confuse you. And like Conor McGregor, it has again, many new features and new things coming into it, right? So for example, oh React is hot, or Node is hot. And new frameworks keep being added and new features to the language keep being added and it's hard to become really really good at it, especially when you're just starting out, okay? So when you're starting out, you wanna do something that's simple, that works every time. And then you can come to the fun stuff, the hot and the exciting stuff. That's how I would describe JavaScript. Great Language, by the way, and really really fun. I love it myself. The average salary for a JavaScript developer is $110,000 per year. Now, moving on to the most powerful and amazing programming language. Number one. (drum roll) Erlang. Did I trick you there? Because it's not Erlang, it's Python. Why is this the number one programming language? Well, let me start my friend. This is the part that gets me excited, this is the part I made this entire video for, just so I could talk about Python. It's officially been Googled more than Kim Kardashian in 2018. That should just be reason enough, go start doing Python, just quit this video. The second reason, is that it's kinda like Khabib. It's very relaxed, calm, doesn't talk about all these new modules coming out and new frameworks coming out, but it can do all of the heavy lifting that you need. Instagram is built with Python, YouTube is built with Python, Google is built with Python, Reddit is built with Python, Quora is built with Python, Hipmunk is built on Python, NASA runs on Python. And actually just two days ago I was in Canada and I was at a DWave quantum computing event with CS Dojo and Siraj Raval, and they revealed to us quantum computing. And guess what programming language the quantum computing people are using? Okay guys, I'm here with. Moshino. And he works at DWave. What framework are you using? (foreign language) Boom! That's right, Python. Another thing that's very hot for Python is called data science. With data science, Amazon uses data science to recommend to you stuff that you never even thought that you needed. Netflix recommends you movies, you're like, I didn't even know I wanted to watch this movie and I watched it and it's freaking awesome. When you use your phone and it recognizes your face, whether you're laughing, crying, smiling, you have a weird face, that's using data science and machine learning. And Python is very heavy on data science and machine learning. Those salaries go from like $100,000 to something crazy like two, 300 or even $400,000. Another thing I want you to know about Python is, it's the fastestgrowing programming language. So it has beat out other programming languages like PHP. It's also the most wanted programming language according to the Stack Overflow 2018 survey. And it's on its way to become the most popular programming language in the world. Oh, and one important thing that I did not mention, it's the best one to start off with, especially if you're a beginner. The learning curve is almost none, you can run it even online, and you can start building things with it very very very quickly. So, in my mind, if you could start off with something simple and built things that's really powerful. And it's futureproof, so you can be using it for years to come. Let's say even if you want to learn programming languages like C++. Because let's say you wanna become a Unity game developer, I totally understand. Or let's say you wanna learn Swift because you want to develop iOS apps, or maybe you wanna learn JavaScript 'cause it's kind of like Conor McGregor and maybe you like Conor McGregor and you like nice suits and nice frameworks, that's totally okay too. If you start off with Python, you can very quickly and easily jump to JavaScript and learn it, jump to C++ and learn it or jump to Swift and learn it. So I want you to start off with Python if you're a beginner. With that said, Python average salary for developers is a $116,000 a year. Now, I would like to show you the salary for all of these. So here is the salary for C++ developer, a Swift developer, a JavaScript developer and a Python developer. Everybody makes really good money. What's most important to understand is which of these falls in line with your ultimate vision and your ultimate plan? Look if this video helped you and you want to dive in and go a little bit deeper, I have a threepart epic masterclass, it's unfreakingbelievable and it will blow your mind. There's a threepart master class along with an exclusive training. All of these are completely free of charge. So in this, I wanna show you how you can be on your path to start becoming a sixfigure developer. I also show you the different job opportunities that exist in the market, and I lay down the specific path for you to go from... Maybe if you're a beginner right now, all the way to, how can you get freelancing clients or get a fulltime job or maybe even build your own startup. I lay down the entire foundation, I put down this three epic part training, completely free. It's in the description below in the YouTube video, if you're watching it on YouTube just click the link. I want you to go to that master class, just put in your email and it will send you all those videos. All right my friend, that is it, that is all I have for you today. Thank you so much for watching this. I love you, I appreciate your beautiful face. That's it. And I'll see you in the next video. (intense music)