Hey you, what's up? This is Qazi from cleverprogrammer.com and in this video we're going to talk about when should you move on to learning your second programming language. So that, any of that other bullshit, let's jump right into it. (upbeat music) So this question is actually inspired by The Prime on my YouTube channel, and essentially he wants to know how does one test himself or herself if he or she has become an expert in Python. So, meaning, when do I move on to another language and when do I know I've become an expert in Python? Here's how I would answer that question. This question, it kind of frustrates me, and I'm going to tell you why. It's almost like saying, "Hey, once I learn English "and I become an expert in English, "which language should I learn next?" Well, if you came to America and you learned English to get here, maybe your next step is to look for a job using English. Maybe it wouldn't make sense for you to just randomly learn different languages. Right? Or if you went to China and learned Chinese, it doesn't really make sense for you to learn more languages like after you got done learning Chinese. Like use your, put your Chinese to use. So in this case, once you learn Python, put your Python to use. Build projects, build apps, that should be your next goal. Building real things using Python. The only time you learn newer languages is when you need to. For example, if you can't do... Like for example, you can't do frontend web development with Python so that's the time you do need to learn about JavaScript, but I would say first learn about Python and then when you need to, go and learn about JavaScript. And if you're putting together a website, don't learn HTML until you start putting together the website, then yes go ahead and learn HTML. Almost like if you were conducting business in another country, it would make a lot of sense for you to then start learning that language at that time because that's going to be the most valuable for you, that's going to be the biggest return on your investment. How does one know that they became an expert in Python? You don't. It's like you spend your whole life doing it. You can call yourself an expert. It's just like how do you become an expert in English. I mean there's no like one set time. It just takes you a lot of time. You build projects with it. You do things with English. You'd be an expert in English. I consider myself maybe an expert in English, I have 140 different videos but other people might think otherwise. Maybe people think you need a PhD to become an expert in English. Right? So, maybe people think you need to be the bestselling author to be an expert in English. There's no real definition here. To become an expert, build things with it, become an authority, like have a portfolio that shows what you've built with Python. You're an expert. You don't need to spend 50 years. If you have multiple apps, multiple things that you've built with Python, you're an expert. Okay, so, I get this question a lot. When should I learn my second programming language? When did I become an expert? Like, dude, you learn Python to do stuff with it. The point is not to just learn Python and then just like run away and run, like. That's not the point of programming. The point of programming is not to learn a specific language, it's essentially understand the programming concepts behind it. That's what you should be investing your time in. Hopefully, I nailed this question for you guys. What I want to do since we started this Ask Qazi segment, I know on YouTube Q and Q won by a landslide, but on the Twitter platform and on SnapChat, Ask Qazi dominated. Another reason why I didn't choose to go with Q and Q, I'm sorry I kind of had to make like a little call here at the end of the day, I did take your suggestions into account, I had trouble sleeping, trust me. I was like thinking about what you guys had said, but Ask Qazi is like Ask Gary V, and then there's some other Ask shows too. And it's also great for hashtagging. How are you going to do Q and Q with an ampersand? Also what the heck does Q and Q even mean? Questions and Qazi? That doesn't make sense. So I'm sorry, I decided to go the Ask Qazi route, and usually what I'm going to do is the top voted comment, I'm going to generally try to answer that in the following videos. So if you have a question, like a burning question, this is your time to ask it. I will try to go through multiple questions and if the comments are top voted, I'm going to answer them. But if they're just goofy and completely dumb and top voted, I don't know, I might still answer them but you know, I'll just kind of have to like check and see how they are. Okay guys, that's it. I love your faces off. Thank you guys for watching so much. This was episode three of Ask Qazi and I can't wait to see you in the next video.