Yo, people often ask me, and this guy, what can you do with Python? Just kidding, they don't ask this guy what you can do with Python, they ask that guy what you can do with Python. Dude, what can you do with Python, dude tell me. There is a lot you can do bro. So first of all let me actually show you, this is something actually really, really cool. Behind every film. would you believe it? It's actually powered by Python. [Tenzin] What? I didn't know that. [Rafeh] Did you know that Netflix was powered by Python? Did not know that. [Rafeh] A lot of people don't know that. And the point is that software driven networking is actually a huge thing that you can do in Python. That's right. That's pretty cool. All right, another really epic thing that you could do with Python, that most people don't know about, is actually data analysis, and this thing is way too zoomed in, so let's zoom it out. The black hole image that was shot. Is it possible to see something that by definition is impossible to see? Well it turns out that if you were to zoom in at radio wavelengths, we expect to see a ring of light caused by the gravitational lensing of hot plasma zipping around the black [Rafeh] Jesus, did you know that was made with Python, that was captured by Python? I did not know that. [Rafeh] I know bro. Me neither, until I googled it, it's pretty crazy. Shit's wild out here. Shit's wild. (Rafeh laughs) (relaxing beat plays) [Tenzin] So we have [Rafeh] Boom look at that. Python used to take photo of the black hole. Damn, that's exciting stuff. And, just really quickly plugging my Instagram here so you guys can follow me. Ey, ey, ey. (Rafeh laughs) [Tenzin] I can't full screen that. [Rafeh] What are you doing bro? I'm just some ads you know, just writing some ads. [Rafeh] Oh, launching your course bro? Come on man, come on. [Rafeh] Come on, baby. If any developers wants to learn, come learn from us. That's right. [Rafeh] I'm making millions baby girl. (both laugh) (while laughing) Come on man. Okay what else can you do with Python, like actually I'm asking you, like not even on the camera right now. [Tenzin] Full stack development, you know. Full stack? [Tenzin] Lots of job opportunities, you know. One million, one million jobs are supposed to be unfilled, you know, by 2022 so. [Rafeh] Oh, this guy. Python can be happening, you what I'm saying? All right, that's actually a great point, bro thank you. So, full stack development you could do that with Python. Python is unbelievable for that so, for example this app that I'm on right now called Instagram, this is powered by Python. All right, this YouTube thing that we look at this is actually powered by python as well. And I'll just make it easier for all of us, by going to my website, cleverprogrammer.com and here are all of the things, my friend, that are powered by Python. Google, YouTube, Instagram, Reddit, Dropbox, Pinterest, Eventbrite and Spotify. Now, obviously these behemoth, giant software as a service companies, aren't just only using Python. They're using multiple other languages but I just wanted to give you a sense that Python is used for data analytics. It's used for full stack development and it's used for software driven networking and you can be a beginner, or you could be advanced you could be working at Google, or YouTube or you could be working at NASA, or Netflix, using it. Another thing that I like to do when I'm looking up languages and trying to figure out what can you do with them is, I like to, number one, be very, very practical with this stuff so always look up what kind of job opportunities exist and what kind of freelancing opportunities exist for what you wanna do so, let me show you. So here's a good way to like, figure it out. So like, I'm on UpWork right now. I'm gonna click here. It says jobs, I'm gonna type in Python. Now let's see what kind of results come up. All right, so here are some of the results. Says I'm looking for a programmer, cool. Python code, creating an automated program, $500 job. Okay great. So they're basically looking for what seems to be like, an SEO agency, and they just want somebody to automate some scripts for them. Cool, what else? Somebody needs a Python web scraper. And, looks like somebody needs a full stack developer that they're willing to pay $2500 for. Now this is the type of stuff I always wanna look for when I'm looking for a programming language or what kind of demand there is for something, because I wanna know what kind of freelancing opportunities there are, can I actually start making an income from it and it's very important that we actually stay practical and not just be so lost in the high level of things. You know, here, even if you're a beginner you can just be like, and just quadruple down on learning web scraping, and I can probably land a job at UpWork. Or maybe you could be like hey if I just really went hard on the full stack development, maybe I could land a job right? Here somebody wants you to actually work on what is it, looks pretty simple. Sport statistics website, I mean that's pretty easy. The level is intermediate and they're gonna pay you 2500 bucks. So, really, the possibilities with this shit are endless and it's really up to you how you put it to use, and you use it. So, that's kind of what I wanted to share with you with what can you do with Python now, the question is, what do you want to do with Python? So, drop that in the comments below, I would love to learn what it is that you enjoy doing with Python and that's it from me. This is Qasi, I love your face and I'll see you in the next video. From being completely broke to then learning how to code in just a few months. Landing my contract as a freelancer with Python and being able to make $20 000 while I was a terrible community college student, and to then being able to live the lifestyle I want on my own terms and have the ability to have my own time, freedom, money and have the ability to make an impact on the world. And at the same time, travel with my friends, be there for my family, you know when we hit 300 000 subscribers. Go to all these events. Even now, I'm in Miami at 10X Growth Con with Grant Cardone. How does that lifestyle come about? As a Python developer, I was able to create that lifestyle for myself and in this video I'm gonna show you that, how you can do that for yourself. Take students like for example John Navarro, who went from working with me, from complete zero to becoming a senior data scientist. Or Nazar Mally who landed a $130 000 contract and now he's moved to Germany with his family and living an amazing life. Or Afrin Shaik who was able to make $20 000 after she took one of our programs. I've put together an incredible training for you that'll help you become a six figure developer. So you can earn the income that you want. You could have the time, money and the freedom and the impact that you wanna have in this world. The link is below, click on the link It'll take you the training, just put in your email. I'll send you this masterclass, this three part series. It'll absolutely blow your mind. Completely free, so take advantage of it before I decide to take it off. Go there, do it now and I'll see you on the other side. Woosh. (rhythmic electronic beat) ♪ Going all day man, know I'm saying ♪ ♪ Going all day man, know I'm saying ♪ ♪ Going all day man, know I'm saying ♪ ♪ Going all day man, know I'm saying ♪ ♪ I'm going way too down low ♪ ♪ Going way ♪