Hey guys! What's up? Today I'm here with whatsdev. Without any further ado, let's jump right into it. This could be our podcast opener, dude. I like it! What's up, this is Qazi here, from cleverprogrammer.com. Today here with... Tenzin from whatsdev. That's right, and we are here with... Aaron. You guys know me. Yeah. Aaron is the man on the Clever Programmer channel. This is the first episode of, what should we call it? The Qazi show! The Profitable Podcast. The Profitable Programmer Show! (laughing) Oh that's actually good. The Profitable Programmer Show! Welcome, everybody. We're gonna start off with talking about why developers don't get girls. And then from there, we're gonna transition into a lot more things. So this is gonna be probably one of the most authentic, transparent, and rawest shit that you guys have seen on this channel. So if you're under 18, you should probably leave. But, if you It might get too raw, though. Yeah. But if you're over 18 an you're excited, let's jump right into it. So, and he's Tenzin from whatsdev, you know. I don't know if you guys know that. Take it easy. Because he's been off the map a little bit. But! This guy just opened up his new YouTube channel called Yeah, I got my first subscriber yesterday. [Tenzin] Did you? Yeah. This guy started a YouTube channel for everybody. Yeah. Pretty much, that's how you started right? Pretty much. Yeah, yeah. Peer pressure. Peer pressure is everything. But yours is called, what is it called? Clever Programmer Aaron. Nice. So it's kind of a branch of Clever Programmer, it's not my own own yet. Fucking RSD. CP Aaron. Not CP Aaron, Clever Programmer Aaron. All right, yeah, yeah. But CP Aaron for short. Nice bro. I like Clever Programmer Aaron. That's good. So, you just came over here from Chicago, how was your trip? Good. How was your trip? It's pretty long, you know. [Aaron] Any earthquakes on the plane? No earthquakes. Little turbulence on the plane, but no earthquakes. It was pretty good, dude. Yeah? It was a long flight, you know? Yeah? Slept a little. Wrote a little. Really? Yeah. What'd you write? About my Uber driver today. Wait. I took my Lyft to the airport, and turns out my Lyft driver is a fucking trader. Like a day trader or what? Yeah. And you know what he said? You know what he fucking said? Enlighten us Tenzin. Yeah seriously, I'm curious now. He said he drives Lyfts for fun. Lyft for fun. Yup. I've heard this actually. Out of boredom. I've actually heard this from quite a few people. Like Mustafa, remember? He had a, not a developer. Holy shit. (laughing) I was just throwing that in there. Teamwork, baby! Put captions on this shit. (laughing) The Rev will be going crazy. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But he got in an Uber actually with this guy who was like a multimillionaire. At least the guy claimed he was. And Mustafa was like, "Why are you doing this, dude?" Big fan, bro, big fan. Yeah, he's like, "Big fan," he's like, "Why are you doing this?" and then it turns out that that guy was driving the Uber purely because he has so much money, he's like a trust fund person almost. He was old, but, he goes, "I just do this to meet fascinating people." I mean, that's the best way to do it. You literally get to have a one on one interaction with like 520 people a day. Dude. By choice. That's being very conservative. And dude, think about it. Everybody that you're meeting is actually a person who has money, right, like guaranteed. And they have to be thinking at a certain level to take an Uber, so everybody who's getting in, I just feel like it's doing something in their lives. You know what I mean? Or they're shitfaced and their friend bought it for them. Yeah, I mean, that could be it too. But I feel like, Also fine. I don't know, but I feel like it's a pretty fascinating way to build connections with people. It is. You know? Because everybody, even people who are goofy as hell, they'll know people. You know? I don't know, if I were to become a developer all over again, I'd start driving Uber and build relationships with everyone. I mean I'm thinking. Right? Making money listening to coding podcasts. Somebody should make a show. somebody should make a show. What was the coding podcast we used to listen to in the beginning? Programming Throwdown. Oh my god. That was good, dude. Programming Throwdown. I'm not on your guys' level. I don't know, what is that? I don't even know if they exist. Pull it up, pull it up, and maybe we can talk about another podcast. Do they even still exist? Like with the reincarnation of it. All right, so it's called Programming Throwdown. I think it's still there. We can be like, Programming Throw Up. [Qazi] Yeah, it's got a lot of ratings, 4.6. [Tenzin] June 19th, Functional Programming, they're still going, baby! I love Functional Programming! [Qazi] They drop something every week, dude. Or every month, at least. They're very... Typescript. Image processing. I mean, I don't know man. January 15th and March 4th. That doesn't seem like they're dropping every, I don't know. You guys are dropping the ball, it seems like. Somebody tagged them, let's make them see this. I mean, it has 460 ratings. You know what's crazy is when I used to listen to them, we didn't even have a platform. Now our platform's totally bigger than theirs. (laughs) That's pretty fascinating. 460 reviews. Maybe they'll reach out to us and we can get them on the podcast! Dude, that'd be like our dreams come true! That would be pretty cool. They're actually really cool, so actually let me just play a part of it. [Podcast] Hey, I'm Jason Gauci. Oh, shit! You feel out of the loop, Frankie? I feel out of the loop. We can just turn up to this, yo! Yeah, I remember this shit, bro. It's like [Podcast] Programming Throwdown Episode 91. This takes me back in the day. [Podcast] Take it away, Jason. [Jason] Hey everyone, so we got a lot of feedback on our interview with __ There's something about it, dude, I just love listening to the It's like, chill. Chill and Yo, we need an intro song. That's what we need. That's true. For this one? For the show. Every time we have a, We need an intro like they do. Every podcast has an intro. Like an intro, yeah. For YouTube, podcast, whatever. [Aaron] Welcome to the Clever Programmer Podcast. That music right there, bro. Which one? The Clever Programmer Podcast. CPP. The music. Which one? That we found. Oh, on epidemic sounds? Okay, hold on. Oh, dude, that is sick! Yo, that is sick! Oh my god. You can even see the size! That is crazy. So guaranteed you know this shit's working. Okay, let me That's insane, bro. That is actually pretty insane, bro. It even has a, oh my god. Let me go on epidemic You had so many times just fricking not Like, your thing is on but it's not on, and after 2 hours of hard work. Yeah, yeah, yeah, recording. Sweat's coming out, and then you're like, oh fuck I forgot the cord. Like you'll be thinking you're screen recording a tutorial for coding, for developers, and then all of a sudden you'll look, and it's not even recording for developers. Or it doesn't save or some shit. I'm just maximizing it, bro. Trying to make this podcast as relevant as possible. Dude, where is it? So I have like right in the feels section. (piano music) No, no. So this shouldn't be the opener, right? What the fuck, dude? Is this a joke? All right how about this? You should pick a few and let 'em choose for episode 2. Like the viewers of episode one should choose it. Yeah, what was the last one? Last one, last one. Okay, how about this? Hold on, hold on. How about this as our opener? Hey guys, what's up? Today I'm here with whatsdev. Without any further ado, let's jump right into it. This could be our podcast opener, dude. I like it. All right, let's try another one. Let's let the people choose as well. If you like this one, drop that timestamp. Number one, number one. That's number one. Okay, we got another one. All of these have the same formula. See this one, that's my favorite. No, not this one. Let me hear the drop. Just give it We can skip to it next time, yeah. This shit's lit, dude. It's lit, but not for a podcast. Yeah, it doesn't feel right. It's very [Aaron] It's too dark. It's almost monotonous. It's not monotonous, but it's just the same beat, you know? The rhythm doesn't change. Not a lot of Variation. There's not enough pizazz or spice there. Exactly. Let me see if I can find Spice. We like it spicy, baby. Damn, this guy talking about pizazz and weird shit, dude. Pizazz. We're talking about spices, dog. Hold on, let me go to... I think I made a... Oh, no, I made epic music. I think it should be in here. What's up guys? Ooh! This is it! This is it! This is pretty good. But we gotta change our voice to it, be like Hey welcome to the podcast you guys, episode 2. Hey, what's up guys, how's it going? This is Qazi. I'm here today with Does it drop? Aaron. Aaron Bernath, and? Tenzin, from whatsdev.com! Let's get right into it. I think that this needs a little bit of that. All right. So you guys can vote, they can vote. All right. Every episode, a different one, dude. Everyone's happy, I found the solution. I think we'll just play it from here. Yeah. All right now let's get to the main topic, boys. Why don't developers get girls? I got dumped. (laughing) Oh, Kayla. Oh shit, you fucking dropped the name. She might actually look at this. I don't know man, you tell me. What do you think? I mean, Aaron is the expert here. (laughing) I don't know why I laughed, I didn't get it. But it was pretty funny, yeah? It was pretty funny. You can probably get the gist of it, the context. No dude, I think I feel like they don't really connect with people that much, you know? What do you think it is? I mean, I can actually talk from fucking experience. All right, all right talk to me. What do you think it is? Why do you think it's the case? Well, she's not gonna fucking watch this, but (laughing) she never gave me a reason, so I actually don't know why, but I just have theories. I was kind of a loser back then, staying up all night playing video games. This shit just got real. You know, not talking to anybody, I only hang out with her. I didn't see any of my friends, I wasn't doing anything with my life except going to school. Right. So it's like, just being kind of a loser. She didn't even know why, she probably just picked up on that low energy and that kind of social awkwardness that I used to have. And then probably in general terms, that's pretty much it. You go through so many variations, you go down different personalities and whatnot. But pretty much is just a lack of outgoingness, ambition, you're kind of huddled down, you're a hermit, staying up all night, you forget to shower, whatever. Playing games, other things. But don't you feel like the complacency was encouraged in your relationship and then that ended up being the downfall of it? What do you think about Wasn't this supposed to be my first YouTube video? We were supposed to talk about fucking breakups my first YouTube video. Hey, that's great, that's great. This is not your first YouTube video, dude. This is an ongoing joke, this is an ongoing joke. Yeah, this is ongoing. Yeah, I think it was, yeah. I just wasn't ready, like just too young. Not ready for a serious relationship even though I thought I was. But even beyond that, if I didn't have a girlfriend, I'd be in the same shit. [Tenzin] How old are you right now? I'm 24. How old were you when that happened? I'm 24, baby. I just turned 23 like a month before 3 days for my birthday, come on let's get it, gang shit. So it's been like a year and a half, over a year and a half, so I'm long over it. I don't know, what are your thoughts on this? I think not just developers, but most people suck at dating and relationships, and they don't get girls. Girls. because you know everybody wants 10 or 9. But I think most people suck because they just don't work on it. They think it's just like a natural skill. I don't even know what natural means, but most people use that, and it's like... You gotta learn that. You have to go through rejections and people don't wanna do it. And ultimately I think it comes down to just being okay with rejections, and most people are not okay with rejections. And not just males. The incessant texting and phone calls versus facetoface interaction too, the ratio was way off. I would see her once or twice a week, but we'd text everyday for four hours. Jesus. That's so much content. You know how engaged your audience would be if you spent 4 hours messaging them back? Nurturing each other for 4 hours everyday! Well it wasn't like a 4 hour chunk. You were focused on the cater, you weren't focused on the custom reposition, you were focused on the LTV, baby. Something like that. Long term game. Life time value. Long term game, you know. Life time vagina. (giggling) Something like that. I don't know where she is now. So, I don't know I have mixed feelings on it but What are your thoughts? I wanna go back to your point. I think I agree with that you say people attach their... Most men attach their ego to things like girls. Like most men think they should just be good at girls. They think they are good with girls. Right. And it hurts their ego otherwise. Just like most men think their good at fighting. Exactly. Nobody can throw a punch for shit. We learned it. Not even a jab. We learned it by getting our asses kicked, right? Exactly. In boxing, jiujitsu, whatever have you. And people also then bring that over to thinking that they should naturally be good at getting clients. You know what I'm saying? People bring that in into everything without actually practicing and making it. I think people suck, like developers especially suck with girls. Because most of them are introverted, and they think they should be good. And it's so easy to huddle down in front of computers, because the players there Because they've been fucking told that if you get a degree, and you go to college, you're not only gonna get unlimited bitches, you're also gonna get jobs and you'll never run out of them. And they think that once they get the degree that everything will just happen by itself. Didn't happen. Didn't happen like that. It doesn't. I don't think it ever does, right? Do you have your degree? Did you graduate or did you drop out too, like that. Come on, dude. I was the fucking leader. I was in the fucking... I'm like shit, I don't give a fuck. I was looking at them, I'm like, "Pretty good, dude, pretty good. Peace." You were the official person who was getting all of your friends around you, including me, to quit college, right? Oh, you were the catalyst. I thought it was you all this time. But I'll take credit for getting my friends to quit jobs around me. What did I do? Nothing. Well you didn't quit college. But that's okay because he's using it very You don't have to quit college, it's not like, oh, you have to quit college. It's nothing like that. No, but the problem is that most people just make it their everything. They don't actually spend any time coding on their own. They don't spend going out trying to get clients. They just make it everything. That was me, listening to my parents. They'll find one girlfriend in their life and then just hold on to her for the rest of their lives. Exactly, it's kind of getting lucky, to be honest. But, hot asian. Oh man, yeah. I feel like it's bad to actually get one of your first girlfriends to be way hotter, like out of your league. They were both hot. I had 2 long term, 4 years back to back. I think that's actually a disadvantage. That's like a kid who gets a trust fund from his parents and now nothing he can They don't know the hard way and then when that girlfriend dumps him, and eventually she will dump him, because that's just how life works, he doesn't know what to do. That's where I was, but it ended up being the best thing that ever happened to me. Changed my life. What? Breakup? Oh, breakups are always the best. They're the best, man. Always the best. This guy, my friends, and me. Everybody starts changing when they're broke up and moved on. I put on 45 pounds, I started going to nightclubs. I went to fucking EDC. Just to provide context, he put good 45 pounds on because he was skinny like me, so he needed to put on weight. More skinny than you. And after he broke up, he started putting on weight and he got jacked. How much do you weigh now? I'm like 150. I was 172 a year ago. But I lost it when I moved here because I was learning a lot of business stuff and I kind of fell off my calories. We were grinding bro. Bro, how close are we to 1 mil? Pretty fucking close, dude. I saw 970? 970, we're very close. I mean let's be honest it's already over that. YouTube ads baby, come on man. Hopefully July we're hitting our first mil. I'm really excited about that. Camera guy Frankie back here, we couldn't do things without him. And I know somebody in the comments is gonna be like, "Oh my god, they're making so much money." We have zero profit, because we reinvest into this business. Into those lights in the background and into the team. I don't know why but that will make people happy, like I know that. Saying that we have zero profit, which is true, which is actually true. You've made 960 thousand, and you've spent 960 thousand. Right, like all of it on Clever Programmer, it just makes everyone happy. Like there's a few things that just make people really happy when they hear them. I never really understand, but there's a general consensus that's like, "Oh, that's amazing." People just like seeing people on YouTube lose. I think so. They see GaryVee, they complain about GaryVee. They see Grant Cardone, they complain about Grant Cardone. Ty Lopez. They complain about everybody. And then when they fuck up Then any person who tells them it's possible, they're like, "Oh, that's a scam." But anybody who tells them it's not possible, that it's insanely hard, that you need like four degrees to even go take a piss, they're like, "That's the truth." You know, so. I was one of those skeptical people, even to this day sometimes I don't know. Like I know the work Oh, you wanna talk skeptical, baby? This guy was fucking The biggest skeptic ever. Humongous. Gargantuan. Fucking truck driver. I was telling him about marketing, SEO, and Ramit Sethi. Okay, Ramit Sethi. If you guys don't know who Ramit Sethi is, you guys should definitely follow him. Exactly, it's his uncle. We're not fucking kidding, it's actually his uncle. I told this guy for two and a half years Guys, somebody's gonna ask me, "Are you both Indian?" Somebody's gonna ask me. Two and a half years, I'm like, "Dude, that's the guy, bro." [Aaron] Yeah, that's the guy you wanna link up with. And then one day all of a sudden, he's like, "Dude, you know, this guy's pretty good." Yeah. I don't remember if you said that but I just assumed it went something like that. And now 970 thousand dollars later. Exactly. Thanks to this Chinese guy. Chinese? Korean? Asian? It doesn't matter, dude. You told me about Ramit Sethi and I didn't I didn't believe that Ramit Sethi because you know I was in the same boat as people because I hadn't made a dollar online. And so I believed everybody who taught about making money online was a scam. So I thought Ramit Sethi was not real. I thought Neil Patel was like, hoax. I thought Pat Flynn was all like, talk, and nothing real. For no reason, literally just because they talked about money, I thought that they were fake. Right. And that's precisely the reason why developers or most guys don't get girls too. Because there are videos online. RSD, right? RSD videos. Ton of videos online showing how to get girls, how it's actually done. Not all that woo woo shit. Be calm, be nice. Be confident Open doors. Be nice. Like empty surface level.. What happened? No, no, no, not you. It's an inside joke, we burn him with it. We call him Woo Woo Master all the time. Just trying to get under his skin. Because he does meditation stuff so we keep burning him on it. Today he almost cracked. (laughs) That's Frankie everybody, behind the camera. This guy's untriggerable. He's working way too hard there, bro. He's very resilient. [Frankie] I got good practice. You use your left hand He got jokes! What? He's funnier than us, he should be fucking running this. I should be behind that camera. Yeah. Fuck, Aaron. I think, one is yes, you can just look up how to get good with girls. Like literally, and study it. Take away all your ego, put it aside, take it in a little box, throw it away. If you don't have results with girls, you need to study it, and learn it, and then practice it. If you don't get results getting clients, you have to study it, learn it, and practice it. Most people, they spend all their time just educating themselves, and then they're just like, "I'm not getting a job. I'm not getting a job." We've all been there. We've all been there at some point. Right. But you gotta work on getting a job, you know? I stopped being there at the age of like 16 bro, because I worked my ass off trying to figure out how to get jobs. I know you did too, from a very young age, you were hustling and like One hundred percent I have more jobs than every one of you combined. Combined. You have done more different jobs than every one of us combined. I would quit jobs like this. Three months, I can't do it. It's just not me. New job, better job. This guy got a job His fucking turn rate was like, what? This guy got a job as a developer, he quit like fucking weeks later. As a developer? How much were you getting paid? 5 days. 5 days later, bro. Did you get paid for the 5 days? I don't know. He quit right after the 5 days he got it. It just wasn't for you? What are you doing now? I know you have your whatsdev channel. Is that bringing you? Same thing. Yeah. He went through his launch. I'm just 10 times left active, but same thing. But he literally has so many less expenses so he's literally more profitable than us. That is true. Like, he has more money than me. That is true. And me. Combined, all of us combined. And Frankie. Yeah, actually. All of us. Mom, if you're watching this, I love you. Right. But, you know, I feel like if they just detach their ego from it, one. And two, just start going fucking out. Or is that too difficult? That's difficult, bro. It is, that's the worst He said it is! It is, but that's the first step. So wait, hold on, let me get this right. So I don't just after becoming an insanely incredible Python or a JavaScript developer just get a line of girls just outside my door, and I need to install revolving doors? Is that what you're telling me, dude? [Aaron] That's exactly What the fuck? That's unbelievable, dude. That's exactly what I'm telling you. So what do I need to do, man? You're the doctor. You're the love doctor here. Always have condoms on you. I got it. Okay because there's too many girls. You gotta be safe. Got it. Mama always said you gotta be safe. That's right. And I listen to my mama. My code is always You do as well. My code is always safe. I write safe code. I make sure that when I'm writing it in Jinja and Django Scalable. I scape my html, so when somebody puts something in, they can't attack. I pass a safe filter. I got you. That's right. Injections. Injections, so the sequel injections. I'm safe against the sequel injections, dude. I'm safe as fuck. What if it's no sequel? That's true, MongoDB no sequel, I don't know, then you're starting to lose me. Yeah, I actually don't know much about databases. That's all good, bro. He knows about the real shit. You don't even have a YouTube channel, bro. Yo, I got one subscriber! Dude, this guy's super humble, but this guy knows about the real shit. He's like full on The fuck you mean, the real shit? No this guy is like full on CSE++ data structures. I know, I see what you're saying, he knows how to code. But like C++ is the real shit. I'm way past that, dude. Back then, I'm like, "Yeah dude, C++, if you understand it bro, if you learn it, that's the real programming, bro, that's real programming." With pointers and references, oh my god. Assembly, inline, nippes assembly or times 86? Coding Cobalt on my left hand, Pascal on my right hand. (laughing) Cobalt on my left hand, Pascal on my right. Yeah, I don't know, Brainfuck is where it's at. Whitespace. Have you ever looked into Whitespace programming language? I have not but I know about the cooking language. Well Chef, I know. There's Brainfuck, which is the hardest programming language on the planet. Pull it up, pull it up. Pull it up. This is recording the screen, right? I've never heard of this, show me. So Whitespace programming language is actually pretty nuts. [Aaron] Don't google this you guys, go out instead. [Qazi] Seriously. So here's what some of the Whitespace programming language looks like. Right there. [Aaron] That's why it's called Whitespace? [Qazi] Correct. [Tenzin] They just did it for fun. [Qazi] If you highlight They were so bored, they're like, "You know what, let's create a programming language out of nothing. Nothing!" If you highlight it, this is what it looks like. So this is the first general AI using Whitespace. I'd like to announce it to the world This is actually not Whitespace because there are lines going through, there's too much code on it. A little bit, it's actually yellow space, so. But look at this, this is when it's highlighted. This is actually what it looks like when you highlight it. And it's all based on how many white spaces you have. So each line is different character? Each thing means different thing, right. So it's literally like coding one character Top programming. Top programming language of 2020. And moving forward. You know what I wanna make? Top 5 worst programming languages of 2019. Nobody's made that. I feel like that would kill. I saw one but yeah, not many do. Right, but the one you saw was that good? No, right? But if we made it I didn't see it but I'm sure it's not that good. We could make it pretty good, right? Yeah, pretty good. Okay, great. Then I won't make it. (laughs) I just need to know, if we're gonna make it good then we don't need to actually make it at all. Here's another esoteric programming language. So this is that, here's Brainfuck. It looks a little bit like this, it's pretty nuts. I mean, I will never understand [Aaron] No bro, that's Lisp. Have you not seen Lisp before? No, it's way worse than Lisp. Lisp is pretty cool. Lisp was pretty cool. When we learned Scheme, isn't the Lisp actually easier than Scheme, or was it? Or was it something else? Scheme is almost like a subset of Lisp. Lisp is like, the full blown. But I'm trying to remember... Closure we were trying to learn. And Closure actually had a little more functionality than Scheme. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Don't listen to me. Yeah, yeah, yeah. When we were doing Scheme and then we went to Closure, we were like, "Oh my god." for me, I felt like Closure was so much easier than Scheme. Even though Closure is hard as fuck. But because we went through that book, what was it? Schemers, Little Schemers. Little Schemers, right? Once we went through that book, Little Schemers, when we went to Closure, that was actually a joke. It's the best book out there. It's the best. That book was so good. If you wanna go deep So good. If you wanna become a deeply great programmer, like deeply good, and just do something for entertainment, I don't think it will help you that much with projects, but recursion, you will understand the shit out of recursion. All right, let me open up You will become one with recursion. Little Schemers. I don't even know what that accent was. So here's the Little Schemers with the little elephant hopping it up over here. You know honestly, when I think about my first ex, like back in the day when I was becoming a developer... Is that your 7 year girlfriend? That was a hard turn, baby. Didn't see that one coming. That's right, that's what the podcast needs to be, you know, just giving people ADHD, like they should just not see anything coming. The Logan Paul effect. And I thought about it and I was like, man the 7 year long relationship, you know. Yeah, that's a long relationship. I mean, what's next, 10 years? Holy shit. Right, that's crazy. And I was in that (laughing) this guy just burned that guy because that guy's in a 10 year relationship. He just got out of it. But not really, he's still kind of in it. And if they ever meet in person then it's basically 11 years now. We know what's gonna happen when they meet in person, right Frankie? But anyways, going back to the thing. I felt like I was becoming more and more introverted every day because I would just keep staying at home, and keep staying with her. Ding, ding, ding. Right? And I was just becoming a super lamer version of myself. Like the version she wanted me to be... She said she wanted me to be, but at the end I found out that person was kind of like a loser, and she started to figure out that person was a loser. And then it was just kind of crappy. It's not the relationship, it's just you at the end of the day. It's just ourselves. And when we're not there, our relationship's not gonna work, our business is not gonna work, we're not gonna learn programming and do anything successfully because we're in that mindset, and we have a poor people mindset, and an unattractive people mindset, so we're gonna remain unattractive. Yeah, I wasn't reading books. All that, you know. I didn't know anything. The day we started reading books [Aaron] Yeah, I'm like 30 books in now. We fucking changed. Audible.com changed my life. Our net worth, our potential net worth was compounding. Like crazy. We sat on compounding interest. That's actually a really smart way to think about it. If there was a graph, and let's say in our life, our potential net worth would just go on to be like this at the age of 65, after we started reading books, it started fucking going like this dude, it's crazy. And knowledge is just that potential power, right, whoever said that. So it's like potential net worth just goes up. Until you execute on it, so your potential goes up. You execute it, it becomes kinetic, you know. And then execution is waiting on it. Physics bro, I like this guy, shit. Yeah, this guy's smarter than he looks, too. [Aaron] He dropped out of college, he's fucking smart. I look that dumb? Fuck man, fuck. No, you just look that good, seriously. I tell this to my girlfriend too, all the time because she looks super hot. And so I'm like, "You're smarter than you look, baby." She gets super offended, but I'm like, "It's literally because you look hotter." Yeah, that's the issue. That's the problem. Because she throws me off with her intelligence. I never expect it. That's the best kind of person. Yeah, seriously. Now that I think about it, yeah, she does look smarter than she looks. That's right, she is smarter than she looks. That's the thing. This guy, he's smarter than he acts. Because he's always acting goofy, but this motherfucker is smart. That's getting a little deep but I'll pretend I understand you. The first time he told me that, I was dying laughing, because I was like, I love that someone gets my identity. Yeah, because he's really smart, but he always just acts goofy and he plays around a lot. For example, just the other day, I've known him so much, right. For like 10 hours a day I've known him, for the last, like, 5 months. Like literally 10 hours a day. I know him more than I know my girlfriend. Same. There you go. And this guy, I just found out, like last week, Frankie and I found out that he's a drummer, and he's been drumming for 13 years. When are we jamming? Let's go tomorrow to the studio, let's jam. All right. I'm not good at drumset, but like percussionist, like I can do Oh, okay, okay. Like I can do different kinds of drums and shit. That's still pretty cool. Drumset I can kinda... That's still pretty cool. All kinds of drums and shit. Taiko drums. Yeah. I was in marching band! I was pretty good at the real drums too, like the real drumset too. _ I could figure it out. You know how I know he's really good? You know how I know he's really good? Cause he doesn't talk about it? He doesn't have one single piece of content online about it. (laughs) That's how I know he's really good. Anybody who's really good, they're so judgmental they never put out content. You always know they're the best! Like that perfectionism That's right. Comes out. That's right. My girlfriend is incredible at boxing, she doesn't have a single the one video she has She just has one view? No, the one video she had on her YouTube, she went two years later and deleted it. The one she had about boxing. But now she has one? Because of me. I posted it, you know. But she's a perfectionist. I'm not a perfectionist. I just posted something that wasn't even that great, but I just put it out. Right, right. That's why I love you, bro. Yeah. You're the balancer, you know? I'm fucking, all the way to the extreme, and then you're like "Bro! Bro, that's the wrong way dude! You went too far!" "Ground yourself!" "Come back!" "I touched the butt!" (laughs) Yeah. "You went too perfectionist." But, the cool thing that happened was you know that other girl that I was talking about? He was talking with? He did get to make out with her. Don't fucking bring that up. I know, I'm sorry dude. It doesn't matter dude. You're 24? Yeah. Dude you'll be 26. Do you know how deep in your content she would have to be to watch it? We're like 30 minutes in. Yeah. If she watches this it's totally worth it. Just don't drop the name. I'm not dropping the name. It rhymes with HariKari. (laughs) I would... I'm fucking kidding. I would drop the name, but I don't know it, so. Yeah you don't know the name. Come on, tell me. (laughs) I'll tell you right now. Oh shit, it's not (whispers) Yeah, so that was great. So you made out as a developer. It happened. I got lucky for once, right. No! No, fuck that! We had like a six hour long conversation. We did, and that helped. And yeah. You went in there with a plan. I went in there with the Your plan of attack. With the right belief system, yeah. With a different belief, that's all I needed. What was the belief? That it was okay. What was okay? And that, it was okay to try, and if it didn't work out it would be fine. And it's fine. Wow. We're still good friends. And we know that she's gonna be leaving, right? So once she leaves, would you be happier now with this, what took place, or would you be happier if you never actually stepped up and took action? I'd be happier that I took this step, improved myself. She knows that too, I told that to her. Yeah. And she agrees. It just makes everyone respect you more. It just had to be done. You gotta rise to the occasion sometimes. That's right. It never ends. It never ends. It never ends, you know? It's a beautiful thing. So, what's the solution for a developer who's like, "All right man, look, you guys have stuck the knife deep enough into my wounds, this is not feeling great, I'm not feeling great, (laughs) watching this content, I'm about to shut it off." Oh shit. "You guys have gone too far. It's gotten too real." And the developer's just like, "Fuck, this is it." But he has all the emotional leverage in the fucking world, he's ready to fucking take action now. So what's the next step for him? Like should he just start going crazy, start going to clubs? Like, what the fuck? Probably, right? I'm actually a believer that you need some kind of vent to give you enough emotional leverage, positive or negative, that you don't have control over. Yeah. Like almost depth, right? Yeah like a lot of people, it's break ups. That was for me, a lot of my friends who got in break ups they turn around and now they're making fucking six figures drop shipping in Chicago. I have a couple of friends who did that. People whose family members died, like if the father passed away or the brother passed away or something. Anything that will spike your emotions enough it'll snap you out of your shit and interrupt the pattern, and then you can actually commit to something different for long enough for it to become, at least a bit of a habit, and then you can Git commit. Exactly. That's so fucking nerdy. But yeah. This is a nerd show, bro. I'm just trying to keep throwing in something relevant, you know, because they won't get the girl thing you were talking about, or we're talking about. Well they might. We don't know who's watching this. "Git commit." That's true. Girls could be watching this. Hi! Girls help us. Dude I have a lot of RSD fans bro. If girls are watching this, drop in the comments how guys can actually win. Yeah. How can they win this game. Yeah. Like when we walk up to you, you want us to be a man, not a little boy whose scared of shit, right? So help us. Some wise old men once said that you should not take girls advice from girls. Yeah that's true. No. Yeah, yeah, yeah you really shouldn't I don't know. I don't know if it was right, but I'm just putting it out there. The quote goes as such If I want to catch fish, do I ask the fish or the fisherman? Wow! That's right. That's the quote. Whoa, bring it in baby girl! That's not even about guys picking up girls, that's also about girls picking up guys. Why would you ask guys when you could ask a girl that's Whoa, this guy is throwing bombs now. I don't even know what that is. Is that some Chicago stuff? That's Asian wisdom bro. That's Asian wisdom striking hard. With the jazz hand finger swipes. I do all of it. Like you know, you play guitar, you know? Ukulele. Ukulele. Ukulele. Finger picking. So you don't ask girls, so. Okay what do you do? You can ask a girl for her singular point of view, but for overall success with girls, you don't wanna ask any singular girl. Correct. I agree. That's what I'm trying to say. For any single girl, you need to respect what she independently desires, because she does know what she wants and what she doesn't want more than in general what girls would like biologically, and guys too. Right. Is that where you got it from? What? Biologic? No, I got that. He picked that up from me. He picked it up from me. Okay. Nothing can change like 240 years of evolution, right? There's some shit we can't change. Right. But. If a bear jumped on you, you would be frightened. Uhhuh. Unless you're If a earthquake started automatically, you would be shook. (laughs) Right? Come on. And if you approached a girl without giving a fuck, she would be infatuated. Wow dude. Those are probably that, the best sentences that came out of your mouth, bro. Wow! Can we write that down? And it rhymed! There's a whiteboard right there. (laughs) This is like the second coming of Christ! (laughs) He has the beard and everything. Brown Christ! I mean, some of these things can be really that simple, and I feel like people, we just go on and we over complicate it. So, where does a developer start? Does he start in the Instagram Dms. (mumbles) (laughs) Is that where a developer starts? I think you start with the Python script like Tinder swiping. (laughs) Swipe, swipe! Automated Tinder swiping! Face detection! If eyes Asian enough, then swipe right. If eyes Asian enough, age over 18, under 35! Yeah. Mouse click, drag left. Mouse click, drag right. Over 18! (laughs) Under or equal 35. If width to height ratio of eyes. Threshold! Can you make a dictionary? Oh my goodness. (laughs) Can you make a dictionary of, you know, their waist to height ratio? Loop through it? Like, busty. Yeah, exactly! Loop through it. Oh boy. She should look like a squiggly bracket. Oh god. And did you notice I said dictionary, because Python you know. Come on! Come on, man. You know my audience man. Awareness game, come on baby. You know my audience. Shit. The only thing braces are useful for are dictionaries. That's correct. Yeah. Yeah so okay, I start off, so let's say I start off, maybe a script, that's funny. But I am a developer, and this is a real problem. What do I do? Like really, do I start off with Dms? Maybe that's the easiest way, right? Start off like messaging? Like maybe a colleague that I was too scared to do anything with, and I'm thinking I might actually start off by, because right now a lot of people don't have that courage, so like what if they just started off by reaching out to one of their colleagues, or a friend in school that they'd see in college or whatever. Because a lot of them are 18 to 24, and they could just start off by going "Hey, do you wanna grab a coffee this week? Wednesday at 700pm at Starbucks." Could that be a possible start? Yeah, even just asking the question is a step in the right direction. That's a brilliant text, by the way. It's brilliant, you should use it. And then you can thank me once it works. But if you just sent it right now, like, let's say, a thousand people watch this. How many will take actual action? Probably five, right? That's being very Very generous! Very generous. But five. Out of one of them, I promise you out of those five, one will get a response before this video actually ends. So if you pause right now. 20 percent conversion rate, baby. That's a 20 percent conversion rate. That's how good this text is. I promise if What was that text again? A lot of you, the text Well, rewind it. But the text is literally this, it's very simple, okay? Reach out to like, your colleagues or your friends, any girl that you you like. Enjoy the company of. You enjoy the company of. Not even has to be romantically, it's just like. Right, you enjoy the company, and you want to meet. And this could actually work with clients as well, like this is phenomenal. It works with girls and clients, or potential clients. But reach out and just say, "Hey, do you want to hang out, this week, Wednesday at 700pm and grab some coffee?" Sit down at Starbucks for like 10 minutes, five minutes. Something that is very limited in scope, and you're meeting in a public place, and it's calm, and it's cool, and it's chill, and that can just be your, you know, in on getting more comfortable with this. It's so funny, I can already imagine so many people just. Contemplating Being, no. Not even that, not even there yet. Being so uncomfortable, Right. Even hearing this. I know. Even hearing it, because they're like, "A text like that?" Yeah. "It doesn't sound like a pickup line." Right. "It's a shit pickup line!" Yeah. "What pickup line should I have?" Or it might even make them cringe. Tennessee, what's that? The ultimate pickup line. You know the Tennessee, the ten I see? What is that pickup line, bro? Are you from Tennessee? Yeah! Because you're the only ten I see. I'm gonna use that. My name is Raj, but you can call me tonight. (laughs) That works for a lot of my fans in India. Let's go baby, India gang. Here to pick up some beautiful women. So I think really maybe start off with something simple like that, you know, like texts, and that's pretty simple. But I know, like, a lot of people watching this would just be cringing right now because they're like, "Man, this just sounds..." Honestly, I don't even think a lot of people think that this would ever work. That's what I'm saying. They're uncomfortable hearing it. Like doing it and actually thinking it's gonna work? No, nowhere close. But here's what I think they should do, okay? It's very simple. Yeah, let's start with simple. It's not about just and there's a thing about learning the skill to be better with girls, but, it's just being a better human, dude. Right. Yeah. You work on your finances, you work on your inner self confidence, like doing good shit. You're gonna be good with girls, because here's the thing, right. You might even be bad with girls, but because you're a person who's like, you know, who's always striving to do good Right. Ultimately you're gonna find a way You know when we were back in high school or whatever, we sucked with girls. We were terrible with girls. We're not like, we didn't go "Oh, you know what, I'm so bad with girls, girls never pay attention to me." And then stayed there. No, we just kept going at it, and we found out simple pick up. And we're like, "What? It's that easy? You literally go in front of the girl and take off your pants? (laughs) And that's how you open? Wow." That's a great opener, by the way. Because who does that? "I can do that!" "I can do that!" That's actually, seriously, like real talk? That's actually really good. And, after that, we're like. Fuck yeah, bro. Get rowdy in this bitch. And, after that we're like, nah, this is not enough. This is still not enough. RSD... That's right. That's where the real stuff's at. And we kept getting better at it, because we were willing to, you know, take action, and that's only because we're always striving to be better, right? Always striving to be be better. It doesn't matter what it is, like girls, career, Chess, coding. Chess, coding, guitar, music, ping pong, whatever it is. Business! Exactly. Podcasts! Videos! We've always figured it out. Be cool! How to be cool.com, next course, bro, next course. Does that website exist? I'm gonna launch it. Launch a course on it. That's right. It's this podcast. The same skills that are stopping you from being able to date the girl of your dreams, are probably the same skills that are stopping you from getting a client. Are probably the same skills that are stopping you from getting a business. Are probably the same skills that are stopping you from reaching out to whatsdev and never getting a reply. Or somebody else, right? Like, those skills take time, you know? I don't know what will have a better ROI on your life. If you're having problems with girls, I don't know what will have a better ROI. Actually trying to meet more girls, or maybe read Rich Dad, Poor Dad. The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck. You know. Mark Manson. A must read! Yeah. You wanna be better with relationships? You have to read that. Not a dating book, read that. And then you can go to dating. And then yeah, you can dive down deeper. That's a good starting point. That's actually one of the first books I started with. That's what I'd recommend to everybody. They're like, "Tenzin what book should I read?" I'm like, the Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck. Yeah, it puts you on the right path. It opens some doors. And it's not just one of those books that are, like, did you want to say something? Yeah. He's on the Hold that thought, I already know what you wanna say. I love that book because it's not just one of those, you know, books written in 1973. That's still really good advice there, but it's not relatable. I saw that guy convert kids. I saw him talk. Yeah you said that. But, this book is like hip as well. The narrator? Yeah he's cool. Mark Manson? No, no, no. The audio book? Yes the audio book. Is it not narrated by the author? [Tenzin] No, it's not. You have to listen to it, you have to. Yeah I listened to it. I just don't remember who narrated it. I don't remember his name, but he was so good. He was so good. Right. You have to read that book. Pulling it up on my Audible right now. You might wanna punch in on this, Frankie, once I pull it up. And you guys have probably heard of it, but. Yeah. It is narrated by Roger Wayne. Yes, Roger Wayne. It's this book. Can you zoom in on that, Frankie? [Tenzin] I don't think he can zoom in that far. [Roger Wayne] By Mark Manson. Read by Roger Wayne. By Roger Wayne. No? Okay. [Roger Wayne] Chapter one Don't Try. Charles Bukowski was an alcoholic, womanizer, and a chronic gambler. When that's the first word of a book, you know you're gonna learn something. (laughs) "Charles Bukowski." Yeah. Okay, he wanted to say something, let's hear it. Tell them! Tell the people! Okay, here's what it is, right? I think everybody has their flavors of the book that they like, I fucking hate this book, personally. But I think that. No, no, no, verbalize it. Like why do you hate this book? Okay, okay, so I don't like this book because, for me, it's a little too mopey. It's written by a person who's really depressed, and I just You'd be surprised, dude. When I started listening to it, I started really going down, you know? Because I tell you always, I've got enough dark in me, I need to read the same reason you like 48 Laws of Power, and there's nothing wrong with it, I fucking read two chapters and I'm like, "Man, I gotta stop reading this shit." And I went to 10x, like I started reading 10x again. I get the same vibe from this book, and my heart just starts to go in this weird dark place. And I get the whole Buddhist philosophy behind things, and I really appreciate it, but personally for me it doesn't get me going, you know? Got you, got you. And I really listened to it, I gave it a shot, but for me, the ones that work magic almost every time is like, 10x. Got you. Works every time, really helps. And then It's a great book, as well. Yeah. Yeah 10x is a great book to, like, hype you up. You need a dose of testosterone? There you go. But that book, you know the crazy thing is it hypes me up, but it's one of the books that gets me to take the most massive amounts of action I've taken in my whole life. Right, it's like Personally . It's like a dose of, you know, testosterone. In word form. It's like, "Let's go! Let's go!" Yeah, like a lot of my courses that I actually made back in 2016, in October of 2016 I made 33 videos in October. Produced 33 videos. That was my highest producing month, okay? I wish I produced at that level forever, but that was when I was readng 10x. Then you'd be called Gary Vee dude. That's right. There can only be one Gary Vee. I'm getting close to it, you know? Some people in the influencer communities are making fun of me. They're like, "This guy is like Gary Vee." And then that guys comments got 16 likes on Instagram. So he was dissing me but I was actually, that was the biggest compliment. 16 people agreed on. I'm like holy shit! Like Gary Vee talks to me one time, and now I'm being compared to him. Man, I'm flattered. You know? Yeah, Belarus and Pakistan are close enough. (laughs) They've both got the hair on the chin. It's funny, I used to hate Where is Belarus dude? It's right next to Russia. It's right next to Germany and Ukraine. Ukraine, okay, okay I know where it is. Guys can we talk about Chernobyl? Let's switch it up. Dude! Oh my god! Well Frankie and I have not seen the 5th episode. You finished it without us. Don't run it for the podcast people either. I know, I know. How was Chernobyl guys? Whoa, almost died there buddy. You go first. (sighs) Before you say anything, did you guys watch it because of my recommendation? You and my brother. Who said it first? You said it first, I think. No, no no, I think my brother. It says if it's such a crazy thing. He seeded it, he seeded it. My brother said it first, then I came to Chicago They just flipped the script on me. No, here's what happened. My brother said it before I came to Chicago, then you told me and I really took your recommendation to heart. Like yours actually, because I was there physically, and you kept fucking hammering, it actually had a lot of impact on me. Probably more than, because my brother spent like one second telling me. Then I came back to L.A. (laughs) I came back to L.A. From Argentina. Argentina. And then I survived no, from Chicago. And then I survived the 7.1 earthquake with this guy. And Frankie. And Frankie. We were all here together. This light was shaking. Right, let's put the clip from my phone. I have the clip from my phone. This earthquake is literally crazy. [Aaron] Yeah bro, but this shit can fucking [Qazi] Oh, the fuck is this? That's what it sounded like. All right, all right. And then, basically what happened was, after the earthquake I was like, dude. We were frightened, and we're like, "The best time to watch Chernobyl is now." So we started watching Chernobyl. Frightened. Vulnerable. It got 9.7 or something. Insane. I would say this ranks above Game of Thrones for me. I've never seen Game of Thrones, so I can't say. Damn, that's crazy boy. Yeah. Especially after season eight? 110 percent. Bro. All the audience members are like, "Yeah! Season 8 sucked!" Oh did it suck? I can just imagine them. I won't say anything, bro. It's just my personal opinion. You might like it, you never know. You know, that guy's accent? Which guy's accent? In Chernobyl? The old guy with the big glasses? Yeah. I fucking love his accent, dude. Like his voice and the way he speaks. Yes. Like his inflection and everything. Yeah, there's an intonation and a rasp to his voice. There's like a... Radioactive. Yeah, yeah, yeah! I can't even pinpoint it but there's a Graphite! Yeah! Graphite! There was graphite on the floor. There was graphite on the floor. I don't know how to speak like him. He's really tough. Who are the other guys in that show? Oh, the old guy! He was badass too. The old guy? "Comrade!" Here's who's the bad ass, okay. The naked miner. Yes! The naked miner. The fucking leader, oh my god. Oh my gosh. He's just walking up with his dick out. He had so, like his balls were so massive he had to walk like this. He's like, " So what?" His legs have to get out of the way. And then when he walks away from them he's just butt naked, he's like. Yeah he's just getting back to business. He doesn't give a fuck. Saving millions, whatever he has to do. The naked miner, our favorite part of this show. Dude, should we call this podcast "The Naked Miner"? Just do it, dude. Just do it. Welcome to The Naked Miner. The episode! Naked Miners and Virgin Developers. Something like that. Yeah, sure. Or maybe NLP, Naked Lovely Programmers. That was random, but sure. Neurolinguistic programming. Exactly, play off that, exactly. Neurolinguistic programming. Is it "nuro" or "neuro"? Neuro, I think. NEURO. Okay. You know, another part I liked a lot was, he's like the guy comes in the suit, and he goes, "You gotta go." And he's like, "Where, why?" And then that guy's like, "You have to go, it's orders." He's like, "No but he's going anywhere." And then the police officer with a gun is like, "You can't talk to us like that!" He's like, "Shut the fuck up." He's like, "You're gonna have to shoot us all. You're gonna run out of bullets. And then when we're left, we're gonna beat the piss out of you." And then the guy in the suit freaks out? Oh, that scene was good. And then every one of them that's leaving starts to go like this with their dirty hands. Yeah, yeah. They're like, "Now you look like the minister of coal." (laughs) Okay, we're getting into too many spoilers. We're gonna a timestamp, and then we're gonna say get to this point. That's not a spoiler, that's just like a scene. I don't know some people might be upset. I would've been upset by that. That's not a... Like cool little moments. Put the courtesy. That's not like Game of Thrones, like Khaleesi's the mother of Skip to the timestamp because we've literally been touching on nothing but Chernobyl. They shouldn't be watching shows anyways, they need to freelance. Yeah, unless they have an earthquake. Then they can watch it. Yeah. That's why we watched it, that was great. You know, bro, Stranger Things new season is out. The Dark new season is out. I've already seen it. Both? Yeah. Which one was better? Don't tell me a lot more. I'm kidding, I didn't see Dark yet. But Stranger Things was good. Bro, I looked up Dark and my brother went crazy. My brother said Dark destroyed. Season two is way better. I heard it's way better. You didn't watch season two, right? I didn't, but I heard it was really better. My brother says it's way better. See? I knew, I knew what he was gonna say. I read your mind, dude. Ever episode is like 9.3, 9.7, 9.5 on IMDB. I'm like, "Oh, I can't wait." I wanted to watch it so bad. Dark is like Stranger Things but darker. And my brother said season two of Dark feels like the extension of Chernobyl. It literally feels like it's the sequel to Chernobyl, because it starts out in Chernobyl, and this show, when Chernobyl happened, this is what I'm saying. Didn't you buy a book about Chernobyl after we watched the show? Hold on, hold on. They said the time got warped in the Don't say anything! Anything! No, it's not spoilers! He's already sold, he's already sold. But I'm saying it's from Chernobyl, like whatever's happening, one of the causes is Chernobyl. This is from season one of Dark, bro, this is not even anything new. Okay, I got you. Isn't that crazy. I know you want me to stop talking about it, I'll stop. That's where Chernobyl was, like that nuclear... Yeah, they're showing it literally, my brother said it literally starts from 1986, like right when Chernobyl happened it starts from there. So my brother's like it literally felt like. It's true, 1986, 33 years, 2019. 1953... And then if you watch Chernobyl Whoa, 33 years! You know all the details. And they say that, in Dark, they say that its a wormhole creates a multidimension, and so not only does the past impact the future, but the future impacts the past and the present. I was like, "Yo!" Wait, you didn't see season one? I have. Okay, okay. But isn't that crazy? Yeah. That's crazy, bro. I gotta watch season two. It's based in 20 I wanted to watch season two so badly, okay? I started, there were so many things that I forgot, I was like, "I can't do this without watching a recap, or at least skimming through season one." So many things. Like season one, even after watching it completely, I had so many questions. Really? I had so many questions. You didn't have any questions? About season one? Yeah. Oh yeah, millions. That's what I'm saying. (laughs) I've never heard of this show. What? The Dark. It's hard to hear about it. Is it Netflix? I told you about it a long time ago, when I discovered it. I told my brother about it too. No you didn't. I remember exactly. You told me, but I had watched it three weeks before. Oh shit, okay. I told my brother about that shit because that shit was crazy. And this thing, here's the right way to watch it, for everyone who wants to watch it, there's only one right way to watch it. If you fuck this up the whole show is gonna be ruined. It's gonna go from a 9.5 to like a 2.2. Watch it in German dubs audio should be German. Because that's the show, it's German. Subtitles English. This is the only way to watch it. If you watch it in English, it literally like it'll drop for you. Whoever watches it in the dub other than the language native of that show It's so weak. It just takes away from that The power. That power. The rawness. Yeah. It just takes away from so many things. I can't. Same thing with anime., I don't get how people watch Japanese anime in English. "Oh my god!" Yeah, yeah, yeah. What! Yeah, they're like "How are you doing?" Yeah! You know, it's almost like that scene, where he's like [Foreign Language] You're gonna translate that to "How many men were there?" Like that doesn't have the same thing. "How many men were there?" I mean that's still pretty cool, but like usually it doesn't translate. It's not that cool. Yeah, like that has power to it. That was an Urdu/Hindi thing. Yeah. You're not that Asian, dude. I'm Asian on so many levels, you have no idea. Can you speak Chinese? I'm Asian with five languages. I get that English is not Asian, so that makes it four languages. You can speak four languages? Five languages. Wow. Hindi and Urdu are the same thing so I... I'll take the credit! Come on, man! I'll take the oneup, you know? Cause the guy speaks Hindi and Urdu. Really? Yeah, I can read too. This guy can't. You can't read Urdu, right? Read what? Did you learn it from him? I can read Urdu and I can read Arabic, son. And I can recite Arabic. But you can't read Hindi. Okay, you're not Hindu, so I got you. You're not Indian, I got you I got you. That makes sense. I can't blame you for that. I can write in improper grammar, what can you do? (laughs) Yeah most Indian people can't like read Hindi at all or Urdu. Like Paki people? They can't read Urdu like they can just understand it a little bit. I mean I can read it. And then I tell, I'm reading the lyrics, because we went, a few weeks ago we went somewhere, and then on our way back from the Lyft, it was a long drive, and they just put on some Bollywood shit, and I'm like, I would just read the lyrics off of some lyric website. But in English. No, in Urdu. Like, Urdu or Hindi. And I was reading Hindi, of course. You can read Hindi? I can write, too. You can read Sanskrit, because you trained in that shit. Yeah, I can write too. What do you want me to write? "What's going on, bro?" Write "Breh. What's going on, breh." I'm kidding, I'm kidding about that. Just say, "What's going on Aaron?" Yeah. Or, "What's going on, homie?" Write my name in Hindi. Just say, "What's going on, man?" Like something like that. Yeah. It's like literally it's like [Foreign Language] Okay, just say, "look under the staircase." That sounds pretty... That's... Is that a Harry Potter Reference? We have all the weirdest shit. What does that even mean? It doesn't mean anything, bro, it's just provocative. Gets the people going. Oh my god, that's from a song, right? "Ball so hard, motherfuckers want to fine me. First they gotta find me. What's 50 grand to a motherfucker like me? Can you please remind me? Ball so hard, that shit cray." That shit cray. Coding all day man, know what I'm saying? That shit went viral. (laughs) Beat drops. That should be the intro song. Dude, that went viral. I don't know if you know that, but like, look at this shit. Multiple developers did this. They literally sent me this video back. Oh shit. (rap music) That's insane. Isn't that nuts? That is insane. Literally coding all day. "Way too damn long!" And this is another developer. Holy shit. "Coding all day man." This guy's going crazy coding. With one hand. (laughs) Yeah. What is he doing with his left hand? Command space. What is he doing? "Coding all day." Get ad, get commit. Toggle a side bar. Literally the only thing you need to know about Git is gitadd, gitcommitm followed by a message, and git push origin master. And git pull origin master. Like, you know those four commands. Like, initially git clone, maybe. And usually I do git init you know, to start off with. Yeah. Like you have those, you don't need anymore Git than that. Like very few is like, git reset hard head, or head hard. That one is one of the most important ones that most people don't know, but that one is usually needed to like go a commit back. And other stuff than that is fancy, but like. Yeah like git status is just a like git diff. Just like little flashes. Git status is really important, yeah git status is pretty cool. Git diff, git stash. We just keep adding one thing. We'll just keep adding. It's always like that with Git. It's like, "Oh, you only need three, you only need three." And then you're like, "Oh, that is pretty useful." About five, six are pretty useful, those will get you about 98 percent of the way there, and then other two percent is like extra stuff. Or the git gat. But Git is not GitHub. Can we clarify that and make people understand that? Git is not GitHub. You go ahead, bro. Knock it out yourself dude. Yeah. I have explained this so many times, I don't wanna explain it. Yeah, it's too much. But Git is not GitHub. Let's just leave it at that. Git is not GitHub. Git is not GitHub. It's like saying, what is it like saying? That's a pretty hard comparison. Django is not Python, but, no. Python is not Django, but Django is Python. How about this? Like a subset. One uses the other. Git is like a time machine, and GitHub is just like A time machine in a cloud. (laughs) GitHub is like Dropbox for code. In like, simple terms. Exactly. GitHub is just where you put the code, it's just where you store the code. It's like Google Drive for code. Yeah. Right? Git is like a time machine. It allows you to go back and forward. If you fuck up, it's like a memory card when you used to play video games when you were a kid. You got a memory card, you know? You fucked up, you die, you restart it from somewhere. That's Git. That's all it is. I always thought GitHub was a web browser GUI version of Git. So like it's just. That's not what it is, that's the thing. That's not what it is? That's not what it is, that's the thing. That's what I've always understood it. No, but like you know how in Google Drive you can go in there and it also has the ability to, if you're in an Excel sheet in Google Drive, in Google Sheets, you know how you can go back in time? Right? Just because it allows that functionality doesn't mean Google Drive is Git. See what I'm saying? It just allows the functional to go back in time and shit. I think he's more confused now. I know, I know. I can see his face. You upload your code, you can click Git is not GitHub bottom line. GitHub is like Google Drive for code, that's it. Git is a time machine. (laughs) You know it took me a long time to come up with that analogy. It was a lot of hard work. That's why I keep saying it over and over again. It's a time machine. I mean, yeah, that makes sense, too. Really is a time machine, right? So, that's about it, that's about it. That's a doozy on that one. All right, any last words? How long are we at? We're sitting at an hour? Just over an hour? Go out more! Go out more. Be a better human being, okay? That's right. And that's it. That's pretty good. That's really it. That's pretty good. Like if you just go out more, not do crazy stuff. You don't even have to go RSD simple pick up, anything like that. You don't even have to read a dating book or whatever, okay? Just, like... pursue your goals, don't give up... and read books. That's it. That's great. That's it. That is great. Yeah. That's really it. Wow. Any last words from you? Like work on your foundations, you know. Everything will come to you. Okay, last words from Aaron. Well, yeah, similar idea, but like. If you're not, the one that really stuck with me was like, if you're not embarrassed by who you were six months ago, you're not changing enough. Yesterday, bro. Six months is way too long. I mean, six months is like a good chunk for like I know, I know I'm just fucking with you. A significant chunk. All right, all right, let him finish his comment. I know, I know, I know. All right, go ahead. Six months? That's literally it. Yeah, like, what you're doing now is the result of what you were doing six months ago. That's pretty powerful. Yeah. I like that. Yeah. It's enough time to be embarrassed by a previous self. And yeah, you're not ashamed to admit it. In the moment, of course, you're not gonna be like, "Oh, I'm a fucking loser right now." I'm not gonna dive into everything. But you'd be like, "Oh yeah, six months ago I had these problems, but they're fixed." Right. So. Yeah man, that's insane. It's a lifestyle, it's not a fucking diet, so. Really is. You just have to commit to it. Yup. And on my end, I will literally say that if you either wanna get more clients or better dating life, honestly just go out more. Even if you you're not going out there with the intention of going to, like, pick up girls or whatever, literally just on the weekends go out with your friends and just have a good time. Like learn how to enjoy socializing. Go to meet ups and enjoy talking. Meetups.com? Meetupscom. Don't just go there to network. Don't stay in your basement or in this little room forever, for as many hours as possible, and then the only time you need a job, you out to networking, and then you hate it, and everybody can see from your face that you hate it. And then you go around handing out business cards, desperate to land a job, because now you're in debt, you got out of college, you don't have any money, and you need to get this job. Everybody can read that from your face, but instead, if you love the process, you develop this habit of going out consistently, you enjoy socializing with people, not only will all your girl problems will get solved, but you will build enough relationships to actually be landing jobs as a developer. That's how he got a job as a developer, that's how I got all my clients, it was through relationships. That's how Aaron was able to connect, and work with Clever Programmer, and do everything he does. It was through relationships. They're super, super powerful. Yes, two Facebook people we me today at VidCon. Two Facebook engineers, yeah. One working there for eight years, one for five years. Wow. The one for eight years, he went to Berkeley, and he couldn't find a job after applying to a hundred, but one simple connection got him into Facebook. Listen. This is so painful, listen. A Berkeley grad. Please emphasize it. He applied to hundreds of jobs. Got one response. And kept going! And kept going. Yup. Yup. Most people apply to two jobs and they're like, "I can't get a job, I can't get a job." Me personally, I would not be on this channel. Yeah, they just cry, man. Everybody just cries too much, bitches too much. But, go ahead. I had the same exact issue. I'm currently a graduate student at Georgia Tech right now, and I applied to 50 jobs, and I got three responses. One was in Compton, and two I was uninterested in. And, that's when I reached out to Qazi, and then I ended up here. From Instagram, dude. From the connection. From the connection to him. This guy reached out to me about 84 weeks ago on Instagram. Then reached out to me again about 40 weeks ago, 50 weeks ago. Because I met him face to face one time, and that held more weight than being at one of the top schools for computer science and applying to 50 jobs in a city as big as L.A., which I thought was abundant with opportunity. Yup. But, a little bit harder. I mean my resume might have been different. How long have you been working here? Five months? Six months? Just over five months. How long do you feel? How do you feel? How do I feel now? Yeah. Amazing. Working here for six months, what do you think about the decision you made working here for six months? Do you think...? The best decision I've made since my move. The breakup, the move. Qazi, Clever Programmer. .com Turned into my testimonial. That's right. I mean, arguably I could've gotten similar experiences from other locations. (laughs) but, Qazi's not bad. There is the truth. That's the truth, guys. I think that whether you went here, or you went somewhere else, you would get real world experience. Yeah I would be working on a different skillset right now. You get real world experience when you do real world things. So, I wanna emphasize two takeaways from these two people. The big takeaway from Tenzin was apply that guy applied to a 100 jobs to Facebook engineer, and never gave up, that's very powerful. Most people start bitching and moaning way before that. Berkeley grad. The important take away that Aaron was trying to convey was that that guy was a Berkeley grad, and from a 100 applications, he got zero jobs. The only place he got the job from was from a relationship. And that got him into Facebook. That got him into Facebook. Not some random company. Facebook. [Frankie] He was hiking, by the way. That guy was hiking when he met the Facebook clinician. He was hiking when he got the Facebook connection. Yeah, Frankie was there with him. That's insane! He was outdoors, not in his fucking basement. That is insane. Even today, in the Lyft, while I was in the Lyft, if it was like 10 years ago, I would not talk to that Uber guy. At all. I'd just be like, "Hey, what's up man." And I would just be on my phone or doing something else. Now, every time I take Lyft, I make it a fucking mission to talk to the guy and find out more about him, and that's how I knew he was a trader. And he has YouTube channels. At first, when he said, "I'm actually pretty good at it," I knew he was good because he said it in a very humble way. Not like the fake humble, like real humble. [Aaron] Humble confidence. Because so many people Dude, you're a humble guy, dude, what the hell are you talking about? Wrapped in arrogance. Did you just hear what I said? Yeah, "It's on my YouTube channel." Jesus Christ, so calm. I would freak the fuck out. Like repeat that. Bro, what'd you say? YouTube? Did you say YouTube? He's like, "Yeah, yeah, yeah." And then start's spelling it out. I don't know why people are just so calm. I whip out my phone, I'm like, "GHGITCH" or something like that. Jesus. [Aaron] Can we pull it up? I forgot, but I could probably go in the history. It's fine. It's gonna take too long. I pulled it up, dude, I kid you not. I'll show you later. $1700 in six minutes. The title was, "Watch me make a quick $1700 in six minutes." And it's a live trading, it's not like fake shit, fake screenshots or whatever. It's live trading. Not just one video, all his videos were like, "Qatch me flip $3600 in 17 minutes." I'm like, "What the" And then in the beginning I didn't believe anything he said. After I saw all of those, I believed him. And then when he said, "yeah I just drive Lyft for fun, man," yeah. I'm like, "Wow, wow." He's driving Lyft for a position of fucking power. Jesus. (laughs) And that's what I wrote about, on the airplane. Because the experience was so... different and crazy. Oh, from Chicago. I got it, okay. During my flight, all the windows were down, curtains were down. What do you call them, windows? [Aaron] The plastic shades? Shutters. Yeah shades or whatever. I just went, dude. I never wrote inflight. That was the first time I wrote. The productivity is crazy right? Because there's no internet. Yes. And there's no form of communication. I had internet. But that internet sucks. No, I paid. I paid too, but that internet, besides like, maybe texting? I don't know about you, but I can't watch YouTube or anything. Really? Maybe it depends on the airline. You tried? Yeah. You could do YouTube? Yeah. You sure. 1080p. Dude every internet that I've ever paid for, $8, $15, $20. That's funny. Mine was $16. Yeah, even that much... Really? But okay, that's cool. Awesome. I was playing chess, I was playing you know chess needs a lot of bandwidth or something like that? That is absurd. It needs high speed internet for that, and I was playing without lag or lateness or anything like that. That's brilliant. Satellites, yo. That's brilliant. But maybe I just got lucky, you know? Correct. We were just flying over a specific part where the internet was lit. So talk to me. So you wrote? Yeah, I just wrote about it. Yeah, because... For yourself, or do you post it somewhere. No, just journaling. I have a list, I have ideas, whatever, and then publish or something. But I just put everything ideas. But the main thing is that you actually started speaking with this guy. Exactly. Who you would've never thought, and then you ended up building this incredible relationship, and you were like holy shit. Yeah we exchanged numbers too. I'm like, "Let me get your number before we left." Right. And he was happy to give it to me. So the Facebook engineer is met in hiking, and this brilliant guy is met in an Uber. Lyft. You're good at this shit dude. Come on. Natural, he's a natural. It's fucking Qazi! First podcast and he's just keeping us in check, he's like, "Yeah, yeah come on dude." It gets old after five months, right Frankie? (laughs) Fuck you Woo Master! How to start a podcast! This man, Frankie and I keep each other sane. Either of us in isolation with him would've died. You know that's actually pretty cool, their relationship. They're almost like brothers. And he's the older brother. But he's younger. It's almost like he's the older brother. Who's the older brother? He's almost like his older brother, you know? Like their connection, now, over time, the dynamic. Oh, okay. After five months, every time they're working. That's pretty beautiful. Whenever they're working on editing a video or something, it's like both of them are working on it and going hardcore. I love it actually. I saw them setting everything up, I was like, "Wow." They're brilliant. It felt warm. I know, yeah. Some things you can't explain it? It just can be felt. So I felt it, see what I'm saying? I felt like a dad. One time I was leaving, and I was like, "All right guys, love you." And then Aaron was like, "Oh, fuck you!" And then I closed the door and I was smiling. Fuck you dad! But he was just joking, and I need that. Somebody's gonna get hurt! When I was leaving I was like, "Man." I felt pretty warm. I was like, "Damn, that's actually pretty cool." Yeah, I left a great message. I was like, "Fuck you!" (laughs) He just fucking took out his anger on me. Yeah, so. Basically, whether Uber fucking guy, or whether it's the, engineer. They're gonna be outside, man. They're not sitting in your goddamn basement, so get out out of your fucking basement. No matter how good your resume is, one random connection while you're doing something fun is way better. Like everybody I got a message today, and it was like, "What would you value a CS degree?" And I had my Instagram right here, and I was zooming in to my face, and I went like this and I was like. And the video ended, and I got so much backlash on my Instagram, but I fought everybody in their fucking Dms. Right. And... Basically it's gonna give you a lot of pain to hear that, that it's worth zero, but it's actually not even worth zero, it's worth negative $40,000. If you go to a normal school. I'm actually being nice. But if you go to private, you know, lead level schools, it's like $300,000, $200,000. Yeah, negative $300,000, negative $200,000. John Sonmez made three million dollars from Pluralsight. I'm about to make my first fucking million, so like. You know? This guy has made multiple six figures from fucking coding, okay? So have I from just coding and freelancing. There are so many developers. Brad Hussey, right? This guy is making half a million dollars a year. Yeah, something like that. Right? He's doing a lot. You know he's on Instagram now? I knew he was on Instagram, I've been messaging him on Instagram, that's where I met him. No, I'm talking about ads. I didn't know about that. Ig and Facebook ads. [Aaron] Brad Hussey. That's dope. That's actually dope, I didn't know that. And I saw his video. Pretty good video. He's gonna make great videos, I'm sure. But like guys, this is the world around you. We need to wake the fuck up. A Harvard graduate isn't even making that much money, you know? But it's what everybody's goal is, right? We met a developer today, and he's happy making $1500 or $2000 a month. He's way more than happy. What, Facebook engineer's making $1500? No, no, no, not Facebook engineer, it's another one. But he freelances, and he travels around the world with his wife, and he's worked with some great companies. Apparently we can't say the name of the company because it's... NDA, whatever. Sure, sure. Right, whatever, right? So he's working on some great company. Let's just say it's a company like Docker, okay? Pretty good company, Docker. Sure, yeah. Or Heroku. $2000 a month? He's freelancing, he didn't say exactly what the number was, but the way he spoke, I got the vibe. I don't know why the fuck everybody's trying to hide their fucking numbers. What the fuck is gonna happen if you just fucking tell another person how much money you're fucking making? What is this bullshit? I never understand it, okay? If you're making $2000 a month, somebody asks you just tell them, "I'm making $2000 a month." Or, make more money. The only people who hide their money are people who are very insecure about who they are, they tie all their identity to the money. Those are the people. And you know that they're not making any money, they never wanna tell you how much money. And because of that mindset, they'll never make money. You'll never make money. Because you already have the mindset of hiding stuff. If you hide stuff, you'll lose. The only way to win is by providing so much value, that sometimes you screw yourself over, but in the long run, you'll win. But people, when you ask them these type of questions, and they hide, you generally know why they're working at the place they're working at. But anyway, I asked this guy multiple times, straight on, directly, camera pointing at his face, "Exactly, monthly, what is your income?" And he's like, "Well..." He's like, "If you were traveling in Asia and all these other countries, you'll be making" He's like, "You'll be making around $1500 to $2000 a month. You're gonna be living a pretty great lifestyle." By which I understood it to be that he was making around $1500 to $2000 a month. And he said, "Not only do you get to keep the money." Maybe he just does a part time. Right, he is working part time. And he said, "You get to keep profit." He said, "You get to even save money, and you get to enjoy yourself." That's actually pretty smart. And you get to enjoy yourself. I don't have any problem with people who have jobs, people who go to college. I don't either. No problem whatsoever. If you are happy Yes. With your work, you're passionate about it, and you have all your needs fulfilled. And at the end of the day, if you're happy, like actually happy, and you feel fulfilled? Right. It doesn't matter, dude. You can have a job and that's perfectly fine. That's correct. That's perfectly fine. There's so many people in this world who have jobs right now at this very moment who are very happy with their jobs and look forward to going to their jobs. But, here's the thing. Most people don't like their jobs. [Qazi] Most people hate their jobs. Hate their jobs, exactly. They dread waking up at whatever time and they dread doing everything, and they still stay at that job for like 15 years. Right. Now that? That is... I never understood, what the fuck. For a 10 percent raise. For a 10 percent raise. That's a one dollar raise a year. And they go crazy over that. They get crazy over that. It's how people go crazy over coupons. They go nuts. Five dollar savings from some crazy complex way. They go fucking lose their goddamn minds. And I never understand why that happens with people. But, like, it breaks my heart. You know my thing is, yes you can be happy doing a full time job. You can be happy going to college. It's just that if you know what you're doing, and you know why you're doing it, and then you're doing it anyway? That's okay. It's wearing off. What's wearing off? Keep going, keep going. No, no, no keep going. Oh, I know what's wearing off. Okay, so I'm thinking those are the only people If you know what you're doing why you're doing it, that's okay. But, if you want a certain thing, then you're going to college, but that doesn't map to what you want. Right. The high income, the free lifestyle. The multiple job opportunities. It doesn't map to what you want? That's the only time we're saying We're not even saying "drop out" we're just saying, just reevaluate. Most people have their parents pressuring them to do something. Most people have somebody, their external pressure. Their friends are gonna laugh at them or whatever. So if they just take the path, instead of taking the road less traveled, if they take the same path as everybody else, then, even if they get shitted on, they're okay because at least nobody can tell them, "I told you so." Right. Right. Exactly. And here's the thing. The sad part... When you do something, here's the thing. Everybody has a passion. Correct. When I was in high school, I wanted to be a musician. Yup. And I wanted to play guitar and everything. This guy plays sick ass guitar, he has a beautiful fucking voice. He's literally a legend. All right dude, come on, dude. And he'll never talk about it because he's fucking Asian, just like you. And he's an incredible drummer, 13 goddamn years. I can't play any instruments, I suck. [Tenzin] We know. But I can play blindfold chess. Shut the fuck up Aaron. (laughs) I wasn't taking part in this dude. What was I talking about? I said something about, the sad part. The sad part. Yeah. Everybody has a passion. When you do something that is against your true belief Right. For an extended period of time, that belief slowly goes away. Huh. Damn. And you die. Damn. You die. Literally, your soul dies. And that's why people, after a certain point, they're so numb to it that they don't quit their jobs, or their relationships, or whatever because they haven't solved it, but it's like almost "solved," in a negative way, you know? Dude, it's like what they say happens to elephants. Exactly! When the elephant is a little baby, they tie a rope around the elephant's foot, and then the elephant can't break away. You know about that, right? And then, the elephant can't break away because that elephant is a baby, but then when that elephant becomes a giant, he can break the shit out of that rope, but he never even tries because he thinks he can't break away, because he remembers when he was a baby he couldn't break it. Isn't that fucking insane? He never even tries. His identity is still that one day old elephant. Yup. And that's true with people as well. That's very true with people. And you have to fight your demons, you know? If you don't fight your demons, sooner or later that demon will fuck you up. And when that fucks you up, you're done. Yeah. Then it's really hard to come back. Our demons are crazy, bro. Our demons are crazy. Like this guy? He's so fucking good at so many things, but. He's Asian, bro. He literally has physically speaking, he has trouble verbally saying it. Or, like for example, he's great at drumming, right, but the same reason he doesn't have YouTube content around it, because he doesn't think he's good enough, but he's a fucking beast, I bet you. And I feel like there are also people who mentally undermine themselves. I think he's super talented, but I feel like he sometimes, like, undermines himself. Exactly. And it comes from childhood, right? Because our parents, even when we got As, A+s, they're like, "You got only 98. Why didn't you get a 100?" My parents did that shit, yeah. When you would get a 100, my dad would look at the paper and it's way different from his, way different, way harder like 10 times harder, and he would look at the essay or whatever, and it's 100 percent, everybody else, not 100 percent. He would look at it and just go, "Look at that handwriting." (laughs) Only my mom's Asian. It echos in my head to this day, bro. Nothing is good enough. "Look at that handwriting." That's the definition. [Aaron] Nothing's ever good enough. My mom? Even when I got third, she'd be like wow, you got in third. Like top three she's okay, you know? Top four, no. Top four, still not good. Not enough for Mom. But top three is enough. For Dad? Nothing was good enough. So... You know what they say? What did I do? No, I'm actually adding on. Oh, okay you were looking in a very suspicious way, you know? Staring at me. They said... Excellence is accepted, and greatness is tolerated. That's the framework of certain parents. That's a pretty fucked up way to raise your kids, you know what I'm saying? It's pretty fucked up. I mean, I'm glad they did so... You know, my biggest hack that I discovered? You know, like the low expectations shit that I do? And it's like my ultimate hack that just gets me going in all areas of life? I figured this shit out at a young age, okay? Son, you did drugs? Aww man, thank God, I thought you killed somebody. I thought you killed somebody! Or you got a guy pregnant or something! Got a guy pregnant! That's fucking hilarious. That's fucking funny, that's funny. What I started doing, I realized at a very young age what had started happening, I got Cs? They cried. I got Bs? They cried. I got all As, one class I got like a A or like a B, they were like, "Why'd you get a B in that class?" They just ignored all the As. I'm like, "This is fucked." Like I can never win. And the only reason I got those grades was just to see their reactions. So then I realized that nothing I did mattered, so then I started doing the opposite. I started getting Fs and Ds, I came home late like, in high school. I started coming home at like 200, 300am late every night. My parents hated me for this period. They were like, "You're coming late, what the hell's wrong with you? You're not getting your grades right." But I just systematically kept chipping away, chipping away, chipping away. But what I was really chipping away at was their ridiculous expectations of me, and bringing them down. Bro, now? That's like a win. Bro, now? It's like if I just call them and they just find out I'm alive? My dad starts fucking crying of happiness. Right. It's a beautiful experience. I, at a very young age, stopped giving a fuck about their opinions of me, in a very respectful way, just so I could be free to do my own thing. Right. Whereas my middle brother, I love him, but he couldn't be free of that. Maybe it's circumstance, maybe it's luck, all those things combined. I'm not gonna take that away. Sometimes you can get lucked out, too. But I chipped away at it because I realized that this game is just rigged. This game you're always gonna lose, with those parents. Always gonna lose. And so, I gave up on it, and now my relationship with parents has never been better. Like many, many years later, right? I'm 24 now, I've been fucking chipping away at it since I was like, 13. [Tenzin] Right. So it's like, 11 years of hard work. And, now, I go back and literally anything I do Like they found out I have a white girlfriend, and they would've flipped. I brought it up on the phone. Did I tell you? Yeah you did, yeah. Yeah. I have not heard this story. Continue, continue. This is crazy. So my mom and my dad, they were like, "Where are you?" I'm like, "I'm at the airport." They're like, "Where are you going?" I'm like, "Argentina." They're like, "But weren't you supposed to come to Eid, like, with us." And I was like, "No, I'm actually going to Argentina with my girlfriend." My mom flipped on the phone, bro. My dad came, both of them were going crazy. But because, to them, I'm such a dumbass and I do so many crazy things, like jumping off the plane and shit, which in their mind is like nuts, when I went back to my mom, my mom just loved me. My dad just loved me, because now their barrier is, "If this person is alive, we just love him." But as a result, I've been the best version of myself, I've been the most confident because I got to make my own decisions, and I became much more successful than if I was just living under their roof and doing everything that they said. So like that whole low expectations thing, I do it in everything. I'm like, "I'm gonna do this crazy shit." And you guys are like, "What's gonna be the result?" I'm like, "I'm gonna get two subscribers and it's gonna be fucking unbelievable." And isn't it crazy? That shaped your identity. It did. Like that's insane. That little thing. I mean it's not little, but... When you don't think about it, it's just like, oh it's insignificant. Yeah. But... Every day. Yup. For years. Yup. [Aaron] Yeah. This guy does it with everything. He's like, "Hmm, let me think." Yeah. (laughs) Yeah dude, I tried to chip away too, I'm with you. I tried to chip away but I would get a roundhouse kick, you know? So, that would... I didn't chip away. I wasn't successful until like 17, and then I started to. It started to work because I was here, and I was like, "What, there's a law?" Yeah, protecting you? Emancipated, baby! Yeah, and that's the thing, you know? This is where I say luck and circumstance has to play a role. So like, I just got a little bit more lucky where my dad and mom wouldn't start beating me up. I mean I went to religious school for four years, that was like torture chamber for like four years straight, but my parents never actually beat the fuck out of me. And so that, I had the room to do that, you didn't. You didn't, right? If you had tried, your dad would like find you and kick the shit out of you. Right. With love, of course, but, you know. Always, always. Yeah. I mean, we got kicked every day, like when my dad kicked me it's like, yeah. [Aaron] It's another day. It's just another day. [Aaron] He still loves me. Yeah, but. Yeah, so that's fucked, right? And then it makes it really tough for you, but then we have like different things that take place from there. Like your standard of excellence is more, the work you put in to achieve that excellence, your inner drive, actually, when you actually dedicate it to something it's gonna be more than mine, because your dad trained you in what some might consider a fucked up way. But I just look at it like it just is what it is. It just is what it is. I used to look at it in a fucked up way, too. But now, it's just. Because of that, his intensity is one of the strongest I know, and you also have really high intensity. That's why I always say that you remind me of my friend Tenzin when you're actually in something, you both have a high level of intensity. You sure it's not because we're just Asians? It probably could be that. Oh, okay, okay. Kinda racist dude. But I think parental pressure has to do something with, I could be wrong, but I feel like parental pressure has to do with the level of intensity. That's why so many Asian kids with like insane parents I 100 percent agree. Like, are beasts. Just like I said, that shaped your identity, what your parents did. With you, and then the same thing with me. And I'm sure the same thing with him. A little bit different. But, the pattern is still the same. The why, the root cause of everything. I think for most people, it is, because you're a little kid. Yup. You get morphed into whatever. Yeah malleable. Whatever you see. You see something, you're like, "Oh, let me try that." You look at your dad, you're like, you know what? Let me try that. And for you, your two brothers, your older brother. You had a balance sheet, like trial bounds. Yeah. Yeah, you were third try. That's right. What's that called? See saw. I was the best mistake ever made. Balance. Like, when you look at his older brother, it's like, "Hmm, that's pretty good, but that's not that good. Lemme go to the other side." Yeah, yeah, yeah. Younger brother, "Mmm, that shit's lit, lemme try to be more hip, you know? Oh, leather jacket, oh yeah, okay, cool, cool." But that part I don't really like, so let me balance that off, you know? I gotta be a little more disappointed. And then that perfectly balanced out, dude. That's right, that's right. And that's how he grew his beard. And then I just stole it from. (laughs) And then I'm like, "Hmm, interesting. I like it. I like what I see." And I'm like, "All right, all right. I gotta talk to this guy." Our influence on each others life is probably more influence than anybody has had on anyone ever. Ever. Right? You guys met in undergrad, right? In community college. We met in community college. Hearing that word is so weird! Undergrad? Undergrad. Oakton! Cause you were about to say, "No, no, no," right? I was about to say, no, like. High school, high school, high school! Undergrad? Yeah! That is undergrad. Yeah, that is undergrad. That's crazy! And we met because of chess! I was at Oakton Community College with a 2.0 GPA making six figures. (laughs) How many times have you written that. Like a lot. A lot. [Tenzin] A lot, dude. Like how many times have you typed that copy out. Because you know, once you keep saying the story, you keep saying it so much. Like Gary talks about his story. It's good. That's how you become a great speaker, because you just speak a lot, you know? And then you also become a better copywriter because you have all these things that you memorize, and after a while you don't have to use your brain power to memorize these things, you can go think of something new. When I write ads it's pattern recognition at this point. I believe it. You know what I mean? It's like not even that much thinking. I know, I believe you. Yeah. I've seen you do it. But man, this was a good podcast. This was great. It was. This was actually phenomenal. I mean, we had a lot of... We covered a lot of topics, but you know? I liked it. A lot of ground. Yeah. I love. A lot of false starts, a lot of false ends. I went from like having, in the beginning energy, to like no energy, and then high energy, and then low energy. He was like a wave, yeah. You had really good energy throughout, that was great. No, your energy was the best, you know why? Thanks bro. Because yours was constant. I appreciate it. Mine's like, you know Some topics are lit, you know? I mean you have to be like that, you know? Back to reality, back to reality. You have to be like that to be a podcast host. Yeah. Because I'm not gonna do it, fuck that. You think I'm gonna do it? Fuck that. I'm probably not gonna do it in my own podcast dude. (laughs) I'm gonna be the one going off on tangents like, "Tell me about that part!" You know? Right. People like that too, dude. People love that. Everybody has all kinds of podcasts. Sure, but I don't like it. Your current... No, I go off on tangents a little too much. I'm kind of in the same boat. That's why you said you're the same as me, huh? Yeah, that is the issue. All right guys, this was phenomenal. All right, bro. I don't do handshakes dude, come on. Come on, baby! Frankie? Frankie! All right guys, no, no keep it rolling. Is it rolling? All right guys, thank you so much. This was the first. Ever! Kind of official podcast. Let's call this the Profitable Programmers Show. We had Aaron Bernath, who's our product developer at Cleverprogrammer.com. We had Tenzin Phuljung, aka Zennie, founder of whatsdev.com. You can find him on YouTube, he has an Instagram as well, let's pop his Instagram, let's pop his Instagram. And you guys know me, this is Qazi from Cleverprogrammer.com. Here's my Instagram if you wanna follow. But if you enjoyed this podcast, please show it some love, we really would appreciate it, we beg you. And, begging is kinda weird, but whatever. It's kinda weird. But whatever, I'm pretty humble, you know? I'm kinda humble. Anyways You are pretty humble, dude. We would really appreciate if you actually gave it a like and subscribed to the channel, and if you're hearing this somewhere else The notification bell. The notification bell. And if you're hearing this somewhere, like on Spotify or something, and you wanna stay tuned and you wanna hear more of this, because we kinda got raw and stuff on this, like drop in the comments below what was something that you liked about this, or some kind of feedback what you thought about this, just so we can get your help. And I'll jump in there, and I'll respond to every single one of you, just so we can get your help crafting the next shows to something you wanna hear, you would enjoy. We wanna bring you value. You are really the host. We are just working for you, and crafting this for your needs. Fucking Mahatma Gandhi. I'm Gandhi, that's right. The second coming of Christ, right? With that said, thank you guys so much for watching, we love your face. We do! This is Tenzin from whatsdev.com, and we will see you... oh. This is Aaron from here. And this is Qazi, and we will see you In the next video! [Frankie] Bam!