(hype music) Hey you what is up? How is it going? This is Qazi from cleverprogrammer.com In this video I'm going to talk about why I dropped out of college as a programmer. So without any further ado, lets jump right into it. There are many factors to this. I recently made a video called, "do I need college to become a programmer?" Which is a great video. You should check it out we'll pop it up here somewhere. With that said, I do wanna talk about the pros and the cons of college. And when you should decide which route you need to go. Okay, some I'm gonna talk about all those concepts in this video. First of all, I'm gonna start off with, you have to know why it is that you are actually going to college in the first place. That's something important for you to actually understand. Because if you are trying to, like I said in my other video, trying to become a doctor or a lawyer then you might need college and you might need the degree otherwise it's impossible. Right you need to have that bar exam as a lawyer to become a lawyer. Now when it comes to computer programming. If you're trying to become a data scientist. It helps to have a degree. A lot of data scientists have their PhDs. But if you're trying to become a fullstack developer, a front end developer, a back end developer. Now look if you wanna become a doctor or a lawyer you're probably gonna need to go to college. But if you wanna become a web developer, a full stack developer, a front end developer, maybe it's not so necessary. Right? When it comes to programming. So it depends on what you are trying to do. But I think, what's deeper to understand about this question or this video topic if you're clicking on and watching it and you're thinking "why did Qazi drop out of college?" my hunch is you're trying to figure out what might justify it for you to drop out of college. And what are the conditions where you can make that decision, because it's a very important decision of your life. It one of the most important decisions of my life. I dropped out of college after I went about two and a half years. I went to a community college, Oakton community college, for two years. Then I went to UIC, which is a university in Chicago, and I essentially ended up dropping out of that after going there for 1 year. The biggest point that I want to get across here for you is earn your way out of college okay? Please don't feel privileged enough to just pack your shop and drop out at some random point. Understand that you actually need to earn your way out of it. So what do I mean by that? If you're considering dropping out and you're like, "Hey there are a lot more practical things I could do in the real world I can work on real world projects, get real experience instead of maybe sometimes just learning theory." Well, don't just pack up your shop and drop out. The first thing you need to do is prove to yourself that you're capable of surviving on your own. Personally, for me why I dropped out was because I started getting free lancing opportunities and I was already doing software development work outside of college while I was going to college. I had other developers who started working under me as well that I started managing. I hired them from Upwork and then I managed them. They were brilliant developers, they were really good and I was the middle man between them and the client. Because I was a good enough programmer. And then I could just handle the clients expectations and I could handle communicating between the software developers to make sure the project was moving forward. What ended up happening was I was started to earn over six figure income while I was going to college. And then I remember my professor at UIC, my computer programming professor, he came up to me and he started asking me about career advice and he actually sent me an email as well asking about that. So I thought, okay if my professor is asking me about career advice then maybe it might be a good time for me or maybe it's a sign that I'm already doing something right. So I thought, let me just take one semester off and start pursuing this on my own. But please keep in mind that I was already earning enough I didn't just randomly drop out. So it also depends on your level of tolerance to say how much risk you can handle. Some people are really risk averse. Ahem, ahem Aaron. No I'm kidding, he's right there. He likes to play it a little safe. So maybe for him it's better to go to college and he would still go on to kick ass in life. For me, I had just a different way of going about things. Everybody has their own way. So decide what works for you. That's really important. But for me it was, if I'm working on end of projects already and I'm making an income, maybe I can just drop out. So I took one semester off. In that semester off I wanted to see how I would do on my own. And also my channel, Cleverprogrammer, it started to get a few more subscribers. I wasn't making any money off of it, but it started to get more subscribers. Okay, because I already have clients and have already figured it out then I'm gonna be safe. And that's kinda what happened in that semester off I started earning more income, I started getting more software developing jobs And my channel was also growing more. At that point I decided. I believe January of 2017 was where I really decided I was going to be dropping out of college completely. So that's when I really decided, when things were already taking off I was getting results. I survived two or three months after taking a semester off and then I said okay so January of 2017, I'm like around that time. January or February is where I decided Okay cool, I'm gonna drop out at this point because I think I can handle myself. I am able to not only survive, but thrive and I essentially ended up dropping out of college. Also, I found mentors who I was learning from. So for me it's also really important to understand that school is just one resource you learn from. When I talk about dropping out of college and why it helped me so much. People think I'm pro not being educated, being stupid, no. That's not what I'm promoting. I am learning every single day. And for people who're learning on their own every single day and you're selftaught. Which I know a lot of you have the capability of doing and a lot of you probably are. Who are learning programming and who are getting into this field. You've even shown enough interest to watch this video on your own. Which 90% of the world isn't ever gonna do. You can start to Once you're learning on your own, then you just start to see college as one resource where you're getting a little bit of your knowledge from. That's essentially it. So if you're learning on your own. Making progress, growing every day then it's not really necessary right? But if you're somebody who is not learning on your own everyday and that's your only place you're learning from then you kinda need it. Right, because if you don't go then you're not going to become anybody. You're just going to be useless in life. Those are my thoughts on why I dropped out of college as a programmer. Please understand just to recap. Earn your way out of college, number one, which is the most important point. So prove to yourself while you're going to college that you can actually drop out. And two, you need to see which field you're going in. If their is a field that guarantees that you cannot get a job without a degree then you need to probably get a degree. But for example people who become, let's say if you want to become a cinematographer, you want to become a videographer, you want to become an editor. You could go to school and get a degree and you will learn really well and you'll be amazing You could also get jobs on your own. Right, so that's one field where whether you get a degree or not you'll still be able to find work. So just pick and choose figure out in programming world, what are the fields that need a degree and then go from there. With that said thank you so much for watching. If you liked this video, give it a little like. It really helps out the channel. Drop comments below. Let me know your thoughts and then I can jump in there and engage with you. Subscribe to the channel if you haven't already. And as always I love your face and I'll see you in the next video. If you want to become a developer that makes an impact in the world. And you want the freedom to work from wherever you want, I've put together an epic, unbelievable, three part master class. It's absolutely free. Go on this link that I've put in the video below. Put in your name and your email, hit enter. And I will unlock and send the training your way for this epic master class. (hype rap music)