So Unity 2019.3 is just around the corner. In fact, it's currently in public beta and it's looking really cool. So let's have a look at what's new in Unity 2019.3. But first this video is sponsored by popcore.com. Popcore is an exciting gaming startup based in Berlin that creates engaging hybrid casual games. The games have been downloaded more than 100 million times, and if you're an avid gamer you have likely already stumbled upon their top charting games, such as Sandwich, Wrecking Ball and Marvellous 3D. Right now, they're hiring ambitious Unity developers and artists, who are eager to work with the latest technology and build unique experiences that entertain millions of fans every day. So if you're not afraid to take ownership and create games within a few days, instead of months or years, definitely click the link in the description to check out their current job openings. Now, let's jump right into it, and talk about the new full Editor UI redesign. Overall the UI is a lot more flat and modern, so far I think it has potential. Of course as always, Unity is encouraging feedback so I'll just mention a few tweaks that I personally feel could make it even better. Overall I think it's very boxy, which is fine, but I feel it adds some unnecessary complexity when just looking at a blank editor. I think the asset icons in the project panel aren't very clear. The distance between the letters in the font is a bit too smaller, and some of the text elements seem inconsistently sized. I also think that the way the buttons in the scene view are separated is a bit messy and that the icons in the console don't really fit. But then again, isn't it always this way with new UI, the package manager has also gotten some improvements. You can now instal packages from a Git repository via URL, which is really cool. It's also getting more integrated with the Asset Store and you can now quickly instal Asset Store assets you've used before. Now, when it comes to tools for artists, the effects graph is out of preview, and it's getting better integrated with shader graph to allow the two systems to talk more fluently together. And yes, it's finally here, with the new update to the terrain system, you can now paint holes in your terrain. Wooo! With animation rigging, you can now use the timeline to preview and key frame animations on rich characters. The good thing about this is that it enables multitrack layered animation to be edited easily with the timeline so you can create cinematic sequences with multiple characters, props, and cameras while modifying animation clips. And one of the really big changes of 2019 0.3 is the UI builder. This is now available as a preview package. And while I haven't gotten much time to play around with it, I think it has the potential to be a really powerful tool. That being said, it still seems very early. And the overall feel of the tool is a lot different than what I'm used to when working in Unity. I'm curious to see how the tool will evolve from here and when it's good to start using this, instead of the current uGUI. In terms of graphics, HDRP is now out of preview and Unity 2019.3 is the version where the lightweight render pipeline is being renamed to universal render pipeline. This is now the standard render pipeline to use in Unity, as it runs on all platforms and can still produce really beautiful results. With this change, postprocessing has been revamped and it's integrated directly into the pipeline. It currently has all the effects you would expect, and it now supports the volumes, which is definitely needed. Also the light limit has been increased from 32 to 256, and it can now shape up to eight lights on the same object. And talking about the lighting, the progressive light mapper has gotten some speed improvements leading to smoother editor interaction when baking. It also has a new AI denoiser that allows you to get away with using fewer assembles to get the same results. Overall, it looks like the GPU light mapper is getting closer and closer to being the main tool to use. In terms of Physics, the PhysX library has been upgraded from 3.4 to 4.1. This comes with some accuracy improvements, especially for handling joints and better performance. Personally, I think this is a bit hard to get excited about since Unity has already introduced a whole new DOTSbased physics system, as well as support for a havoc. So that's mostly what I'm looking towards. Unity's support for STADIA is now production ready, including features like DOTS and HDRP. In terms of 2D, a lot of packages are now coming out of preview, they are on the screen now, and the timelines now also support 2D lights. As of 2019.3, the new asset import pipeline is the default for new projects. It aims to save time with faster platform switching and lays the foundation for faster imports. Unity is also making the asset pipeline scale better for very large projects. And in other great news, the Unity distribution portal is now in beta. This enables you to distribute your game to multiple app stores through a single hub. Currently, I see that they're still lacking support for a lot of large game stores like the Apple Store and Google Play, but it looks like more are planned to come. Also Unity as a library allows you to embed Unity as its own library inside of native apps. The new accelerator speeds up working on remote projects. Version control is getting an overhaul, including improved merging, and you can now into play mode faster by choosing how Unity handles script and seeing changes. Because if you don't need to reload the entire scene, you can enter play mode so much faster. Just take a look at some of these results. Finally, the device simulator allows you to simulate your game running on another device. This will not just resize the game to fit a certain screen format. It will actually trick the editor into thinking that the game is running on the device to help you test more in depth, such as if assets are loading correctly. Now, this video simply had too many features to cover in this video. Here's a list of some of them. Finally, 2019.3 comes with a number of smaller changes and bug fixes. For complete overview, check out the release notes, using the link in the description. Also, don't forget to check out popcore.com. If you want to take your game development skills to the next level and contribute to their portfolio of hit games, simply click the link in the description on that. Thanks for watching and I will see you in the next video. Thanks for the awesome Patreon supporters who donated in October and special thanks to InfintyPBR, Lost to Violence, Loved Forever, Ruonan, Chris, Jacob Sanford, Faisal Marafie, Peter Schwendimann, (murmurs) Dennis Sullivan, Alison the Fierce, Steve Customs, Kirill Sviderskyi, Gregory Pius, Naoki Iwasaki, The Mighty Zeus, Daniel Dysonic and Erasmus. You guys rock.