With timestamps:

00:01 - While default HTML Pages can be quite dull,
00:03 - to add some color and personality 
to the page you need style.
00:08 - Setting the style of an HTML element 
can be done with the style attribute.
00:13 - The style attribute contains 
CSS properties and values.
00:17 - CSS is the language we use to style HTML.
00:22 - Let's set the background color of a page.
00:25 - The CSS background-color property defines 
the background color of an HTML element.
00:30 - To add a background color to this page we add
00:34 - style="background-color: 
powderblue" to the body element
00:38 - Now the background color of 
this page is powder blue.
00:43 - Now let's change the color of the text.
00:45 - The CSS color property defines 
the text color of an HTML element.
00:50 - To add a text color to the heading we add
style="color:blue" to the h1 element.
00:57 - Now the text color of the heading is blue.
01:00 - Then we add a red color to the paragraph.
01:04 - Now let's change the font of the text.
01:07 - The font-family property defines the 
font to be used for an HTML element.
01:12 - See? You can simply change 
it to Verdana and Courier.
01:17 - The font-size property defines 
the text size for an HTML element.
01:21 - See? When the font-size value changes, 
the size of the text changes accordingly.
01:27 - The text-align property defines the 
horizontal text alignment for an HTML element.
01:33 - To center a text we use text-align: center
01:36 - So always make sure you add style to your work,
save beige for pants.

Cleaned transcript:

While default HTML Pages can be quite dull, to add some color and personality to the page you need style. Setting the style of an HTML element can be done with the style attribute. The style attribute contains CSS properties and values. CSS is the language we use to style HTML. Let's set the background color of a page. The CSS backgroundcolor property defines the background color of an HTML element. To add a background color to this page we add style="backgroundcolor powderblue" to the body element Now the background color of this page is powder blue. Now let's change the color of the text. The CSS color property defines the text color of an HTML element. To add a text color to the heading we add style="colorblue" to the h1 element. Now the text color of the heading is blue. Then we add a red color to the paragraph. Now let's change the font of the text. The fontfamily property defines the font to be used for an HTML element. See? You can simply change it to Verdana and Courier. The fontsize property defines the text size for an HTML element. See? When the fontsize value changes, the size of the text changes accordingly. The textalign property defines the horizontal text alignment for an HTML element. To center a text we use textalign center So always make sure you add style to your work, save beige for pants.
