With timestamps:

00:00 - Hey YouTube so as I mentioned in a previous video I didn't study computer science or Computer Engineering as my major at my university
00:08 - Instead I was studying statistics
00:10 - but on the side
00:11 - I learned to code mostly on my own and eventually I became good enough to get a job at Google as a full-time software engineer
00:19 - So I briefly talked about how I learned to code in the same video, but in this video
00:24 - I wanted to go into more detail, so I'm gonna talk about my personal
00:27 - Experience first about how I learned to code
00:29 - But if you just want to find my recommendation about what you should do, you should just skip over to this time in this video
00:35 - So here are the 4 steps
00:37 - I personally used to learn to code. First of all I took a few summer courses during my summer break
00:42 - So the first course
00:44 - I took was an introductory programming course it covered topics like loops, variables, if statements, and
00:51 - functions, and then the second course I took was on data structures and algorithms. It covered topics like trees, graphs, hash tables,
01:00 - Searching, and sorting these two courses were both taught using Java
01:05 - After I took those courses I decided to learn more on my own
01:08 - I heard that you can use something called "Ruby on Rails" to build websites
01:13 - And I wanted to build a website
01:14 - So I decided to learn Ruby on Rails and "Ruby" which Ruby on Rails is based on. And to learn Ruby,
01:20 - I use the website called The Pragmatic Programmer, and to practice using it
01:24 - I use this other website called Project Euler which gives you a ton of simple programming problems to solve. To learn Ruby on Rails
01:33 - I used Rails for Zombies, which is an interactive website for learning how to use Ruby on Rails. And step 3
01:39 - I started working on a bunch of personal projects. My first real personal project was going to be like the reddit of Japan
01:47 - Partly because I'm originally from Japan and I was living in Japan at the time
01:52 - Working on this project was really helpful for understanding how Ruby on Rails works
01:56 - How Ruby works and also how web technologies in general work. Through this project,
02:01 - I also learned the importance of asking for help. You know, when you're new to programming
02:06 - It's so easy for you to get stuck, and I think it's really important for you to just ask for help
02:12 - You can do this virtually through websites like Stack Overflow,
02:15 - Facebook groups, or reddit, or in person if you know someone who knows how to code in person.
02:21 - And then, using the skills and connections I developed, partly through my projects.
02:26 - I got a few technical internships. These technical internships were really helpful for developing my skills further.
02:32 - because I started getting feedback on my code from my colleagues, and
02:36 - I started learning a lot more a lot faster than on my own.
02:41 - In between those internships, and even when I had one of those internships.
02:45 - I kept working on more personal projects. That was partly because it was just fun, and partly because I wanted to build more skills.
02:52 - And after all that I started working on my technical interview skills,
02:57 - And eventually I got a job at Google as a full-time software engineer. So if you're just getting started with programming
03:03 - or if you're a complete beginner
03:05 - What should you do exactly? I'd recommend the following four steps
03:09 - first of all, you should learn the basics of programming through one of those interactive websites.
03:14 - I personally recommend Codeacademy, but I also heard that freeCodeCamp is also pretty good
03:20 - If you're not sure which language to get started with, I do recommend either Python or JavaScript
03:25 - after that, start working on a personal project
03:28 - It could be a website, an app, or automating a simple task. As you work on your project, keep learning more through those
03:35 - Interactive websites. And for more advanced topics that those websites don't cover, I'd recommend Lynda.com
03:42 - And Udemy. Step number 3! As you work on your personal project
03:47 - I think one important aspect here is the community aspect.
03:52 - If programming is something that's totally new for you, it's probably gonna be really hard.
03:57 - And so, it's really important for you to be able to get help from others through online or offline communities. So try using
04:04 - websites like Stack Overflow,
04:06 - Meetup.com, and Facebook groups and events to find relevant communities.
04:11 - Step number 4! Try getting an internship
04:14 - Or a job, ideally a paid one
04:16 - Once you do, you should be able to learn even more quickly, because
04:20 - You'll be able to get some feedback from your colleagues on your code. And those are the four steps
04:25 - I would personally use to learn to code today. If you have extra time and money to spare, going through a coding bootcamp, or
04:33 - Even getting a degree from a university might also be a good option
04:37 - Okay, if you're curious about a more general strategy I used for getting a job at Google
04:42 - there's a video about that, and if you're wondering which programming languages you should learn, I have a video about that too
04:48 - And let me know in the comment section below about what kind of videos I should make in the future. I'm YK from
04:54 - CS Dojo, and I'll see you in the next video!

Cleaned transcript:

Hey YouTube so as I mentioned in a previous video I didn't study computer science or Computer Engineering as my major at my university Instead I was studying statistics but on the side I learned to code mostly on my own and eventually I became good enough to get a job at Google as a fulltime software engineer So I briefly talked about how I learned to code in the same video, but in this video I wanted to go into more detail, so I'm gonna talk about my personal Experience first about how I learned to code But if you just want to find my recommendation about what you should do, you should just skip over to this time in this video So here are the 4 steps I personally used to learn to code. First of all I took a few summer courses during my summer break So the first course I took was an introductory programming course it covered topics like loops, variables, if statements, and functions, and then the second course I took was on data structures and algorithms. It covered topics like trees, graphs, hash tables, Searching, and sorting these two courses were both taught using Java After I took those courses I decided to learn more on my own I heard that you can use something called "Ruby on Rails" to build websites And I wanted to build a website So I decided to learn Ruby on Rails and "Ruby" which Ruby on Rails is based on. And to learn Ruby, I use the website called The Pragmatic Programmer, and to practice using it I use this other website called Project Euler which gives you a ton of simple programming problems to solve. To learn Ruby on Rails I used Rails for Zombies, which is an interactive website for learning how to use Ruby on Rails. And step 3 I started working on a bunch of personal projects. My first real personal project was going to be like the reddit of Japan Partly because I'm originally from Japan and I was living in Japan at the time Working on this project was really helpful for understanding how Ruby on Rails works How Ruby works and also how web technologies in general work. Through this project, I also learned the importance of asking for help. You know, when you're new to programming It's so easy for you to get stuck, and I think it's really important for you to just ask for help You can do this virtually through websites like Stack Overflow, Facebook groups, or reddit, or in person if you know someone who knows how to code in person. And then, using the skills and connections I developed, partly through my projects. I got a few technical internships. These technical internships were really helpful for developing my skills further. because I started getting feedback on my code from my colleagues, and I started learning a lot more a lot faster than on my own. In between those internships, and even when I had one of those internships. I kept working on more personal projects. That was partly because it was just fun, and partly because I wanted to build more skills. And after all that I started working on my technical interview skills, And eventually I got a job at Google as a fulltime software engineer. So if you're just getting started with programming or if you're a complete beginner What should you do exactly? I'd recommend the following four steps first of all, you should learn the basics of programming through one of those interactive websites. I personally recommend Codeacademy, but I also heard that freeCodeCamp is also pretty good If you're not sure which language to get started with, I do recommend either Python or JavaScript after that, start working on a personal project It could be a website, an app, or automating a simple task. As you work on your project, keep learning more through those Interactive websites. And for more advanced topics that those websites don't cover, I'd recommend Lynda.com And Udemy. Step number 3! As you work on your personal project I think one important aspect here is the community aspect. If programming is something that's totally new for you, it's probably gonna be really hard. And so, it's really important for you to be able to get help from others through online or offline communities. So try using websites like Stack Overflow, Meetup.com, and Facebook groups and events to find relevant communities. Step number 4! Try getting an internship Or a job, ideally a paid one Once you do, you should be able to learn even more quickly, because You'll be able to get some feedback from your colleagues on your code. And those are the four steps I would personally use to learn to code today. If you have extra time and money to spare, going through a coding bootcamp, or Even getting a degree from a university might also be a good option Okay, if you're curious about a more general strategy I used for getting a job at Google there's a video about that, and if you're wondering which programming languages you should learn, I have a video about that too And let me know in the comment section below about what kind of videos I should make in the future. I'm YK from CS Dojo, and I'll see you in the next video!
