With timestamps:

00:00 - Hi. A question just came in the live chat, how
do you create an HTML button that when
00:06 - you press that button your p5 sketch
restarts itself? So I'm gonna look very
00:11 - quickly at how to do that in this
particular video, so I have one of the
00:16 - p5 examples called flocking. It's
running a flocking simulation, there's a
00:19 - lot of code involved with this but we
can see that actually what's in setup
00:23 - and draw is quite simple and mostly all
the code is happening in other objects.
00:27 - How that works is not really the content
of this video, I want to look at how
00:31 - we're gonna have the sketch restart
with a button. So first of all let's at
00:34 - least look how do we add the button to
this page. So the way that you can add a
00:37 - button in a p5 sketch is using the p5
DOM library and you want to make
00:42 - sure that your.. you've got the DOM
library included. If you're using this
00:46 - desktop editor which by the time you watch
this video might be completely different
00:49 - are obsolete but the main thing here is you
want to make sure in your index.html
00:53 - file that you're referencing the p5
DOM library which I am here as
00:58 - well because I'm going to use.. the button is
not part of just the plain vanilla p5
01:02 - library so that's already set for
me and as soon as that's true I can say
01:06 - createButton and I'll pass a single
argument to that function "reset", so now
01:13 - if I run the sketch you can see
 you can see here
01:17 - I've got to shrink this down a little bit, there 
we go, you can see all the way here at the
01:21 - bottom there's a button that says reset
now of course if I were to click this
01:26 - button nothing is going to happen
because I haven't actually attached any
01:30 - event to it. So I need to attach an event
to that button. The way that I attach an
01:35 - event to that button is first of all I
need a variable to store a reference to
01:40 - that button so that I can say button.mousePresed
 (resetSketch); so what I want
01:50 - to do is that this particular button
that's on the page when i press that
01:57 - button I want to execute a function
called resetSketch which will somehow
02:01 - reset the sketch. Now resetSketch
isn't some function that exists as part of
02:05 - p5, it's a name that I just made up
because I'm gonna write it. Now your instinct
02:08 - might be to do this
02:10 - just call setup. Setup is a function
whenever I press the button call setup
02:16 - again. Let's try that let's save our code and
let's see what happens. Now weirdly that
02:21 - worked but look what's happening.. like more
buttons are being added all sorts of
02:25 - things are happening right? Because
everything.. createCanvas was called
02:29 - again which is a little bit of a problem
so this is a bad idea. I don't.. even know
02:34 - this kind of worked I don't want to tie
the setup function to a particular event
02:39 - which is why I said I want to make my
own function called resetSketch so what
02:45 - does that mean I need to then write a
function called resetSketch and in this
02:50 - function is where I want to put all the
code that should happen when a sketch
02:54 - has restarted
02:55 - so you might be gathering now watching
this video realising ooh there's not a way to just do
02:59 - this automatically? and I would think
there really isn't it. It's up to you to kind
03:03 - of define what it means to reset a
sketch and then execute that code at the
03:08 - appropriate time. The good news for you
is I could say you know what I think it
03:11 - means to reset a sketch? I think it means
only to do this stuff. It means to make a
03:15 - new flock object and to add a hundred
boids to that flock object so I can take
03:20 - that code and put it into resetSketch
and you know what I can do even better
03:25 - than, I don't need to.. your instinct
might have been to do this. To take
03:29 - that code and copy it in there and now this
is actually good right?
03:34 - You see the sketches running, I hit the
button everytime I hit the button it's
03:37 - resetting the sketch.
03:38 - So you could say that we're done but I
don't like this I just duplicated this
03:42 - entire block of code down here in this
function and what if I want to change
03:47 - what's happening when I reset the sketch
but also have that happen in setup well
03:50 - the fact that I've made this resetSketch
function means I can also call it in setup
03:55 - so basically now if you look at setup's code..
this is wonderful. What setup does is it
04:01 - basically says create a canvas set up
the sketch and by the way make a button
04:05 - that if you ever press that button set up
the sketch again. So basically everything
04:09 - associated with starting the sketch is
in resetSketch except for making the
04:13 - canvas which I really only want to do
once and making the reset button which
04:17 - I really only wanna
04:18 - do once so now if I run this sketch we
can see there it is flocking and if I hit
04:23 - reset every time I hit that button it
resets the sketch and this my friends is
04:28 - a less than five minute tutorial video
and I am so tempted to keep talking but
04:33 - lest I go over five minutes, am gonna hit stop.
So hopefully you found this useful if you
04:37 - make your own button or something that
resets the sketch let me know and share
04:40 - it in the comments or ask questions in the
comments and I will get back to you.
04:43 - And this code will also.. the code.. the code
for this sketch will also be posted on Github
04:48 - and the link will be in the description.

Cleaned transcript:

Hi. A question just came in the live chat, how do you create an HTML button that when you press that button your p5 sketch restarts itself? So I'm gonna look very quickly at how to do that in this particular video, so I have one of the p5 examples called flocking. It's running a flocking simulation, there's a lot of code involved with this but we can see that actually what's in setup and draw is quite simple and mostly all the code is happening in other objects. How that works is not really the content of this video, I want to look at how we're gonna have the sketch restart with a button. So first of all let's at least look how do we add the button to this page. So the way that you can add a button in a p5 sketch is using the p5 DOM library and you want to make sure that your.. you've got the DOM library included. If you're using this desktop editor which by the time you watch this video might be completely different are obsolete but the main thing here is you want to make sure in your index.html file that you're referencing the p5 DOM library which I am here as well because I'm going to use.. the button is not part of just the plain vanilla p5 library so that's already set for me and as soon as that's true I can say createButton and I'll pass a single argument to that function "reset", so now if I run the sketch you can see you can see here I've got to shrink this down a little bit, there we go, you can see all the way here at the bottom there's a button that says reset now of course if I were to click this button nothing is going to happen because I haven't actually attached any event to it. So I need to attach an event to that button. The way that I attach an event to that button is first of all I need a variable to store a reference to that button so that I can say button.mousePresed (resetSketch); so what I want to do is that this particular button that's on the page when i press that button I want to execute a function called resetSketch which will somehow reset the sketch. Now resetSketch isn't some function that exists as part of p5, it's a name that I just made up because I'm gonna write it. Now your instinct might be to do this just call setup. Setup is a function whenever I press the button call setup again. Let's try that let's save our code and let's see what happens. Now weirdly that worked but look what's happening.. like more buttons are being added all sorts of things are happening right? Because everything.. createCanvas was called again which is a little bit of a problem so this is a bad idea. I don't.. even know this kind of worked I don't want to tie the setup function to a particular event which is why I said I want to make my own function called resetSketch so what does that mean I need to then write a function called resetSketch and in this function is where I want to put all the code that should happen when a sketch has restarted so you might be gathering now watching this video realising ooh there's not a way to just do this automatically? and I would think there really isn't it. It's up to you to kind of define what it means to reset a sketch and then execute that code at the appropriate time. The good news for you is I could say you know what I think it means to reset a sketch? I think it means only to do this stuff. It means to make a new flock object and to add a hundred boids to that flock object so I can take that code and put it into resetSketch and you know what I can do even better than, I don't need to.. your instinct might have been to do this. To take that code and copy it in there and now this is actually good right? You see the sketches running, I hit the button everytime I hit the button it's resetting the sketch. So you could say that we're done but I don't like this I just duplicated this entire block of code down here in this function and what if I want to change what's happening when I reset the sketch but also have that happen in setup well the fact that I've made this resetSketch function means I can also call it in setup so basically now if you look at setup's code.. this is wonderful. What setup does is it basically says create a canvas set up the sketch and by the way make a button that if you ever press that button set up the sketch again. So basically everything associated with starting the sketch is in resetSketch except for making the canvas which I really only want to do once and making the reset button which I really only wanna do once so now if I run this sketch we can see there it is flocking and if I hit reset every time I hit that button it resets the sketch and this my friends is a less than five minute tutorial video and I am so tempted to keep talking but lest I go over five minutes, am gonna hit stop. So hopefully you found this useful if you make your own button or something that resets the sketch let me know and share it in the comments or ask questions in the comments and I will get back to you. And this code will also.. the code.. the code for this sketch will also be posted on Github and the link will be in the description.
