With timestamps:

00:01 - Now that you understand the basics of Javascript, I wanna teach you about a cool way of using Javascript
00:05 - Something we call "object-oriented programming"
00:09 - But first we need to understand why it's actually useful
00:12 - So I put together a program that will be better once we make it more object-oriented
00:17 - Now, it's a pretty cool program to start with. At the top, I have two variables that store simple object literals inside.
00:25 - Now, the object literal is a kind of object we learned about before, that we create with two curly braces
00:30 - and then we put all these property names and values inside.
00:34 - So we have two of those object literal variables, and then down here we have this function drawWinston
00:39 - which expects a single argument,
00:41 - and then it draws the argument, it draws an image based on the x and y properties of the object
00:47 - and then a caption based on the nickname and age properties of that object.
00:53 - And now finally at the bottom, we call drawWinston() on the teen and on the adult,
00:58 - and that's what makes it show up.
01:01 - Pretty cool. Now, if we go here, and we look at these object literals,
01:06 - notice something about them is that they're really similar-looking.
01:11 - Both of them have the same sets of properties, and both of them can be used by the same drawWinston() function.
01:17 - In fact, you know, if you think about this, they're really both describing a type of Winston, right?
01:24 - And we can think like maybe there's this kind of abstract type of Winston in the world,
01:28 - and every Winston has the same set of properties like a nickname and an age and an x and a y
01:36 - and here, what we've done is we've just created two instances of a Winston
01:42 - to describe, y'know, a particular Winston. So this is a teenage Winston and this is an adult Winston.
01:48 - But they're really, they're really both quite similar and, y'know, there's a lot of things that are similar about them.
01:54 - And, y'know, if you think about it, that's a lot the way the world works too, is that we have kind of these abstract data types like humans and people
02:01 - and then we're all just specific instances of those with our own little properties.
02:05 - Now, we can actually use object-oriented techniques in Javascript so that these Winston variables
02:14 - are formal instances of a Winston object, so that they know that they share these things in common.
02:21 - So, to do that, the first thing we need to do is actually describe this abstract datatype Winston
02:27 - And so we'll do that by making a variable
02:30 - You will store the datatype in a variable. So var Winston, and we'll do capital W cause we always start our object types with a capital,
02:38 - and we'll set it equal to a function.
02:42 - And this function is a special function that we call a "constructor function"
02:47 - because this is what's going to get called every time we want to create a new Winston instance.
02:52 - So we want, we want to create a teenageWinston, we'll call this function, or an adultWinston, we'll call this function.
02:57 - So that means that this function should take whatever arguments it needs to know about in order to, y'know, make a full Winston
03:06 - So in this case it needs to know a nickname, an age, an x, and a y.
03:11 - Now, once we've received those arguments we need to do something with them,
03:15 - so we need to actually attach that information to the Winston object.
03:21 - So we'll use a new special keyword, called "this". And "this" will refer to the current object instance.
03:28 - So we'll say this.nickname, so it'll say all right, the nickname property of this object is equal to
03:34 - whatever gets passed into the constructor function, okay?
03:38 - And this.age is equal to the age that gets passed in, this.x is equal to the x that gets passed in, and this.y
03:45 - equals the y that gets passed in.
03:48 - All right so now we have this abstract datatype called Winston, and it has a constructor function that we can use to create a new Winston.
03:57 - So let's try to use it!
04:00 - We're gonna create winstonTeen again, but this time we're gonna say winstonTeen equals,
04:05 - and instead of curly braces, we're gonna say "equals new Winston".
04:10 - So we're saying "we're trying to create a new Winson instance,"
04:13 - and then we're gonna pass in the information that it needs so "Winsteen", 15, 20, 50, okay?
04:22 - And then we can delete this old one because we don't need it anymore.
04:27 - All right? And now that's created a new Winsteen.
04:31 - And now we can say winstonAdult = new Winston()
04:35 - and of course his name is "Mr. Winst-a-lot", sweet name,
04:39 - and he's 30, and he's at 229 and 50. All right? And then we can delete this object literal.
04:47 - And, tada! Our code still works.
04:50 - So what we've done here is that we've said okay there's this, this kind of is an abstract type of data which is this Winston
04:58 - and we can create new Winston instances that have these um, these properties that are unique to them
05:05 - And we'll just remember those properties inside them
05:08 - And remembering is really important. So you know inside here, we have this.nickname, this.age
05:14 - If we accidentally, y'know, didn't have this.age, notice that now it says "undefined"
05:20 - That's because down here, this drawWinston function,
05:23 - it expects whatever object gets passed in, it expects it to have an age property.
05:28 - And if we didn't say this.age,
05:30 - then it doesn't have an age property, okay? We passed it into the construction function
05:34 - but then we didn't do anything with it, we have to actually attach it to the object using "this" keyword.
05:39 - So we'll add this back
05:41 - Now you might be thinking like okay, sure, you got your code working and you're doing this fancy thing,
05:46 - But, you know, we're... all we've done is accomplished what we had before
05:50 - But here's the cool thing. Now, all of our Winstons go through the same constructor function
05:55 - So if we want to, we can actually change things, change some things about the Winston...
06:00 - all the Winstons, just inside here. So maybe age, we actually wanna say "years old"
06:06 - We can just put that here, and now all of our Winstons say "15 years old," "30 years old," right?
06:12 - So they're taking the part that's unique about them, but then they also have things that are shared about them
06:17 - And that's a really cool thing about object-oriented programming is this idea that
06:20 - there's these kinds of objects in the world, and you can actually create instances of these objects
06:26 - and there's some things that are similar about them like they all have the same properties,
06:29 - then there are things that are different like oh, this property is actually a different value than this other property, right?
06:35 - But then, you know, we can kind of, you know, do the same behavior with them like call the same functions
06:40 - and use them in similar ways. So that's some of the cool stuff about object-oriented programming
06:45 - but as you're gonna see, there's tons more too.
06:48 - So, stay tuned!

Cleaned transcript:

Now that you understand the basics of Javascript, I wanna teach you about a cool way of using Javascript Something we call "objectoriented programming" But first we need to understand why it's actually useful So I put together a program that will be better once we make it more objectoriented Now, it's a pretty cool program to start with. At the top, I have two variables that store simple object literals inside. Now, the object literal is a kind of object we learned about before, that we create with two curly braces and then we put all these property names and values inside. So we have two of those object literal variables, and then down here we have this function drawWinston which expects a single argument, and then it draws the argument, it draws an image based on the x and y properties of the object and then a caption based on the nickname and age properties of that object. And now finally at the bottom, we call drawWinston() on the teen and on the adult, and that's what makes it show up. Pretty cool. Now, if we go here, and we look at these object literals, notice something about them is that they're really similarlooking. Both of them have the same sets of properties, and both of them can be used by the same drawWinston() function. In fact, you know, if you think about this, they're really both describing a type of Winston, right? And we can think like maybe there's this kind of abstract type of Winston in the world, and every Winston has the same set of properties like a nickname and an age and an x and a y and here, what we've done is we've just created two instances of a Winston to describe, y'know, a particular Winston. So this is a teenage Winston and this is an adult Winston. But they're really, they're really both quite similar and, y'know, there's a lot of things that are similar about them. And, y'know, if you think about it, that's a lot the way the world works too, is that we have kind of these abstract data types like humans and people and then we're all just specific instances of those with our own little properties. Now, we can actually use objectoriented techniques in Javascript so that these Winston variables are formal instances of a Winston object, so that they know that they share these things in common. So, to do that, the first thing we need to do is actually describe this abstract datatype Winston And so we'll do that by making a variable You will store the datatype in a variable. So var Winston, and we'll do capital W cause we always start our object types with a capital, and we'll set it equal to a function. And this function is a special function that we call a "constructor function" because this is what's going to get called every time we want to create a new Winston instance. So we want, we want to create a teenageWinston, we'll call this function, or an adultWinston, we'll call this function. So that means that this function should take whatever arguments it needs to know about in order to, y'know, make a full Winston So in this case it needs to know a nickname, an age, an x, and a y. Now, once we've received those arguments we need to do something with them, so we need to actually attach that information to the Winston object. So we'll use a new special keyword, called "this". And "this" will refer to the current object instance. So we'll say this.nickname, so it'll say all right, the nickname property of this object is equal to whatever gets passed into the constructor function, okay? And this.age is equal to the age that gets passed in, this.x is equal to the x that gets passed in, and this.y equals the y that gets passed in. All right so now we have this abstract datatype called Winston, and it has a constructor function that we can use to create a new Winston. So let's try to use it! We're gonna create winstonTeen again, but this time we're gonna say winstonTeen equals, and instead of curly braces, we're gonna say "equals new Winston". So we're saying "we're trying to create a new Winson instance," and then we're gonna pass in the information that it needs so "Winsteen", 15, 20, 50, okay? And then we can delete this old one because we don't need it anymore. All right? And now that's created a new Winsteen. And now we can say winstonAdult = new Winston() and of course his name is "Mr. Winstalot", sweet name, and he's 30, and he's at 229 and 50. All right? And then we can delete this object literal. And, tada! Our code still works. So what we've done here is that we've said okay there's this, this kind of is an abstract type of data which is this Winston and we can create new Winston instances that have these um, these properties that are unique to them And we'll just remember those properties inside them And remembering is really important. So you know inside here, we have this.nickname, this.age If we accidentally, y'know, didn't have this.age, notice that now it says "undefined" That's because down here, this drawWinston function, it expects whatever object gets passed in, it expects it to have an age property. And if we didn't say this.age, then it doesn't have an age property, okay? We passed it into the construction function but then we didn't do anything with it, we have to actually attach it to the object using "this" keyword. So we'll add this back Now you might be thinking like okay, sure, you got your code working and you're doing this fancy thing, But, you know, we're... all we've done is accomplished what we had before But here's the cool thing. Now, all of our Winstons go through the same constructor function So if we want to, we can actually change things, change some things about the Winston... all the Winstons, just inside here. So maybe age, we actually wanna say "years old" We can just put that here, and now all of our Winstons say "15 years old," "30 years old," right? So they're taking the part that's unique about them, but then they also have things that are shared about them And that's a really cool thing about objectoriented programming is this idea that there's these kinds of objects in the world, and you can actually create instances of these objects and there's some things that are similar about them like they all have the same properties, then there are things that are different like oh, this property is actually a different value than this other property, right? But then, you know, we can kind of, you know, do the same behavior with them like call the same functions and use them in similar ways. So that's some of the cool stuff about objectoriented programming but as you're gonna see, there's tons more too. So, stay tuned!
