I was first introduced to computer science when I was in high school. My first experience with technology was when I was very young, about six years old. It was part of our curriculum at the school I went to. I made my way into computer science class and I loved it so much, that I ended up double majoring in both theatre and computer science. Growing up as a kid in the inner city, I never learned a thing about coding, and it's so important. All my girlfriends have taken a computer science class and I'm the odd person out right now. Having access to technology, and for me in particular, being able to code, was a multiplier. I wanted to do computer graphics, I wanted to be a graphic designer. And people found out, they laughed at me, you know, all these things. And I'm like "Man, I don't care, I think it's cool!" "I'm learning a lot, and some of my friends have jobs." Opportunities are endless for someone who's getting into computer science, that's a job that's in high demand right now. We have all different types of people who work in computer science. We need more participation by women, by more people of color, to provide a different perspective. To provide a different lens on which problems matter and how we should approach these problems. It's not just programming, it's not just building things, it's an entire different way of seeing the world. There's a way, that even when you're coding, you can help make this world a better place. It's a really fun place to be right now. I hope you guys want to be entrepreneurs, you wanna have your own business, you wanna create opportunities for your family. You wanna create your own app, or your own platform, or whatever. I'm here to say today, that you guys can do that. Computer science is for everyone, literally everyone. Some people think you need to be a genius to get in, and that's so far from the truth. I know it can be intimidating, and a lot of things are intimidating but what isn't? Don't give up, don't be discouraged, don't let anybody tell you that you can't do something. If you're a high school student that's thought about taking computer science, just go after it! We need diverse teams of people, in order to make products that reflect what our world looks like. It's not just a means to an end, it's something that gives us hope, to solve every problem the world potentially has. We're on a mission to help change the face of computer science. We're gonna learn to code together, bring the family, gather around. Anybody can do it you should try. Push yourself. Anybody can learn. Just give it a try,