I think it's really important for girls to study computer science. I think for a long time the world thought that some things were for boys and some things were for girls, and everyone understands now that boys and girls can have equal opportunity. If we could just support girls and give them that initial encouragement, then we could start balancing the scales. And then we wouldn't even have to play with the equation because it will just be a natural flow. To be able to code gives you the freedom to build anything, and that is just so empowering. I like having that power in my own hands to express what's in my imagination, using programming. Just the experience of programming gives you access to a new method of thinking. Everything becomes the steps that you can take towards a solution, and that is just extremely valuable. You know it's one thing to use software, it's a totally different thing to get to change how the software you use actually works. Yeah, all my favorite memories from computer science are actually programming together with teams. I don't think computer science is a solo thing. If you want to build something amazing, you usually have to do it in a team and computer science is no different. You all live in a time where expressing yourself, learning about different people, making a business and a real difference in your communities is all totally possible. With computers it's right at your fingertips. It's not about being a girl or being a boy, it's about being talented. Computer science needs more talented people, people who are not afraid of being creative and making the world a better place. Jump into it! Learn! Just try and take one class. Give it one hour. It's amazing what you can learn in one hour. And that's what is so exciting about Hour of Code. All of you are able to participate, from all parts of the country at all ages, from all different backgrounds. And that's what will create the right opportunities for everyone. Every girl deserves to take part in creating the technology that will change our world and change who runs it. I challenge girls in every single country to learn one Hour of Code. Technology touches every part of our lives, so if you can change technology you can change the world. Change the world. #HourOfCode