Kat, we're gonna mute you 'cause the live audience is not joining us. (upbeat instrumental music) (clock ticking) Welcome to Code Break. My name is Hadi and there's thousands of people who are watching us collectively across Zoom, Facebook Live and on YouTube Live. Together we're hoping to build the world's largest live interactive classroom. With so many students at home, my team at code.org invites families everywhere to join us for a weekly dose of inspiration, community and computer science. I'm here with my daughter and sidekick, Sofia. She's a budding computer scientist and she's also gonna be making sound effects for us during this episode. I'd like to introduce our first special guest, actress, producer and humanitarian, Kat Graham. Kat, how are you? I'm doing really well. I'm so excited to be a part of this. This is so incredibly special and ground breaking in a lot of ways, so it's truly an honor. Thank you for having me. Thank you so much. Where are you calling us from? Atlanta, Georgia. Atlanta, wow. I assume like everybody else, you've been staying at home for quite a while. Yes, I'm at home. I'm spending a lot of time on the computer and I'm excited to hear about what everyone else is doing and how they've been dealing with being schooled from home and the challenges and maybe the perks from that and why coding is so incredibly fun to do at a time like this and what AI means to them. So, I'm really excited to learn more about what everyone is experiencing at home. Yep, so before we get started, Sofia always starts us off with a joke of the day, so she's gonna, because today's episode is about artificial intelligence, that's what her joke of the day is gonna be about. So, go ahead Sofia. What do you call a computer algorithm that identifies spa treatments? (Kat laughing) I don't know Sofia. What do you call a computer algorithm that could figure out spa treatments? Facial recognition. Ah, that is clever. We write our own jokes at code.org. Actually, I'm not sure where we got that one from, but it sounds like we wrote our own. So, let's start by meeting our live audience. We have a few dozen students on camera, so we're gonna switch to gallery so they can all wave and say hello. (group saying hello) And, as people were logging in we also asked them to share their location with a QR code and this shows a map of where people are calling us from. Kat, I assume you didn't expect to have people joining from east Asia or Hawaii, but it's pretty crazy how all over the audience is from. There's people here who are calling in at 2 a.m. in the middle of their night or waking up at 6 or 7 a.m. in the morning. That is so special. And, to all you kids that are watching right now, thank you so much and thank you for inspiring other kids to want to be more educated and get more knowledge and that learning can be fun. So, it's super inspiring to see that. That is so cool. Yeah, it's pretty awesome that during this pandemic, people are doing this basically to stay educated. Now, today we're gonna have a lot of stuff to talk about. As usual, if you have any questions during the episode, you can submit them to us at code.org/questions. Our audience ranges from six year olds all the way to 60 year olds, but probably the largest subgroup is Sofia's age. She's 11 and the group of kids who's 11, 12 and 13 is probably the largest group. We are gonna talk today about artificial intelligence and we have three parts that we're gonna talk about. First we're gonna talk about patterns. Then we're gonna talk about training data. And then lastly, we're gonna talk about machine learning. Before we go into today's lesson, what we wanna do is welcome students who download some of their creations. Last week, we had a challenge to make your own dance party in code or to code your own escape room. And each week when you share your creations with us we'll invite the best ones on next week's episode so you can demo what you made with our special guest each week. So, can we first call up or unmute Anya to demo her creation with us? Anya, are you there? Yes. Hi, nice to meet you. Where are you calling from? Wisconsin. Wisconsin. And what grade are you in? I'm in fifth. Fifth grade. So, Anya created a dance party using the code.org dance party and I'm gonna demo this together with Sofia. So, for those of you that saw last week's episode this is code.org's dance party, and we have McLemore join us to learn how to use this. So, this dance is a pretty complicated two player dance that Anya made. It involves 8 ducks in a circle and a pineapple dancer, but there's all these events. We learned about events handlers so when the A key is pressed, the dancer rotates 90°. When the B key is pressed, the background effect changes. All these different keys do different things and you can add new dancers in the middle of the dance. So Sofia and I are gonna demo this together, so we're gonna share the keyboard. Are you all ready? Anya, we're gonna do your thing. So, hopefully it'll be as good as when you made it. Ready, set, go. ["Can't Hold Us" by Macklemore playing] ♪ Alright ♪ ♪ Let's go ♪ ♪ Alright, alright, okay, ah, alright, okay ♪ ♪ Alright, okay ♪ I'm pressing the keys here. ♪ Return of the Mack', get up, what it is, ♪ ♪ What it does, what it is, what it isn't ♪ ♪ Looking for a better way to get up out of bed ♪ ♪ Instead of getting on the internet and checking a new hit ♪ ♪ We get up, fresh out, pimp strut walking ♪ ♪ Little bit of humble, little bit of cautious ♪ ♪ Some ♪ That was pretty fun. Thank you. Awesome You wanna get a round of applause for Anya. Now, can we unmute Myles. Myles, are you there with us as well? Yep. Myles, where are you calling from? Grinnell, Iowa. All right from Iowa. So this is an escape room, similar to the one we showed last week. You know, if I try to click on the door, I can't get out. If I click on the painting, it gives me a bunch of numbers 85639, then if I click on the safe, it asks me to enter the code. So if I type 85639, it doesn't work. And I was just having trouble using this Myles. How am I supposed to use these numbers to enter the code? Can you help me out? It's that the writing is from right, is from left to right and then down one line. Both are from top to bottom, so 83695. I see, so then I can get the key, and then open the door. And now I'm in another room. And then how do I open this door? I need another code. And where's this code? It's not there. If I click on the light, it drops a piece of paper. And then I get a new code 9527 I also tried this earlier, and I couldn't figure this one out. 9527 and doesn't work for me. So I tried this. Yes it is scrambled. Oh my gosh. Alright, so what's the scrambled code? 2975. 2975. All right, let's try it. All right, we escaped. Thank you so much Myles. [Myles] Yep. Incredible. And so we, by the way also had a third escape room from a student named Ecshita in Singapore. It's way too early in her nights right now, I think it's 2 a.m. in Singapore, but I just wanted to show what she made because she made a three level escape room with a fourth level coming soon. And if I click to try level 1, there's all these different things going on, so you can't open the door. But if I click on the painting, it starts giving me a math puzzle. It says 3 watermelons together becomes 36. So that's 12. So watermelon is 12. Then if I click on the flower, it says a watermelon = 2 peaches = 28. So 12 + 2 peaches = 28 So 12 28 = 16. So peaches are 8. And if I click on this thing, it says a peach that's 8 a banana = 3. Kat, do you wanna help us with this too. An 8 a banana = 3. Sofia you want to do it? That is 5. It's a 5. So to open the safe, you need a peach, a watermelon and a banana. So 8, 12, 5. 8, 12, 5. All right. Wow. So brilliant. Opened the door. And now that takes us just to level 2. So we're not gonna do this whole thing. But Ecshita, that's a very impressive multilevel app with codes. We're gonna be sharing her creation out on Twitter as well because it goes from math puzzles to logic puzzles and more. So Ecshita spent a lot of time making this and I encourage people to try it out. That is pretty brilliant. Thank you Kat. So today, our word of the day is artificial intelligence, or AI. And we're gonna be talking about this all day today. AI is a really broad term. And it really means anytime a computer does something that seems to be intelligent. Sometimes when people talk about AI, they're talking about futuristic computers that are almost humanlike in their intelligence, like a robot that acts just like a human. But usually they're talking about algorithms that help computers do smart things. And now what does it mean for something to be smart? This is a field that's advancing really quickly. So we already take for granted certain things that seemed really smart 10 years ago, like recognizing your voice or your face. And in 10 or 20 years, AI will be doing even more incredible things like driving cars or diagnosing and even curing diseases better than we humans can. But before we talk about artificial intelligence, let's talk a little bit about human intelligence. Humans are the most intelligent things on Earth, right? But what is it that we humans are good at? So Kat, what are some things that make humans smarter than other animals? Well, the way we survive, but I think what makes humans so special and what really separates us from artificial intelligence is our capabilities to love and to show compassion and to be able to make decisions based on discernment and intuition. Whereas I don't think that I know, I've been studying this a little bit more deeply on a podcast that I'm doing with Deepak Chopra and we went into artificial intelligence and we studied a scientist friend of ours, who is trying to develop the first artificial brain and putting like a human kind of synthetic consciousness and that and is that even possible. But I do think what makes humans smarter is our ability to feel. That in a way makes us smarter in terms of math, and you know, putting together problems, equations and things like that. I think that artificial intelligence definitely has an upper hand on me. But if we were able to, you know, find the difference... You know a long time that computers have been better than humans at calculating things with lots and lots of numbers. Right. And memorizing all the facts. No human can memorize every single word of the encyclopedia, computers have been better than humans. There are some humans who can. There are some very special humans that can do that. Probably. And it used to be that humans were the best chess players, but we're no longer that. And what has made humans really unique, as you mentioned is discernment, intuition, recognizing things, learning from trial and error. Our brains learn to do this without even thinking. And that's actually what artificial intelligence is starting to help computers do, is learning to recognize patterns, learning from trial and error. And that's what's really happening in the last decade in a way that's changing the abilities of computers. So I want to start with a fun example, which is recognizing emotions since you talked about emotions. Almost all of us learned very young how to tell if somebody is happy or sad just by looking at them. And so let's try this together. So we're gonna switch into gallery view and Kat since you may or may not see this, but a few aren't in gallery view, you can find the button that looks like this. It's gonna be in the upper right side of your screen. And all the other students on camera, you may wanna click this as well, so you can see everybody's faces. Can you guys see me? Wave if you can see me. Alright, so what we're gonna do is we're gonna have all these faces on screen. We've told everybody in emotion to all show and I want you all to show your first emotion and then we're gonna show a poll. So let's all show the emotion that we were said. Ready, set, go. Now we want to do a poll and survey, you should do the emotion as well. Can we pull the entire audience to see what emotion is everybody demonstrating? Option 1 is happy. Option 2 is sad. Option 3 is scared. Option 4 is surprised. All right, and we're getting the votes coming in. People are pretty good at this. Almost everybody has the same answer. So can we share the results out of the poll? All right, so almost everybody recognize that we're all happy and we're all showing our happy faces. So and what's interesting about this is the students who made these votes come from all over the world, all sorts of different ages, speaking different languages from different cultures, but we all knew what it meant to be happy. So Kat when you look at the people's faces at the students faces, how did you know that everybody is happy? What were you looking for? I was looking for a smile. Just right here. I was looking for some teeth. But what I felt was even bigger than a smile. I felt just happy coming at me. So I don't know how to describe that. Exactly, so it's not that you were mentally thinking, if I see teeth, then it's happy. You just felt it. Right 'cause you can go teeth and be angry. you know, when my dog shows to you, that does not mean she's happy. Right. Did you ever go to a class where somebody or a teacher told you that if you see a smile, then the person is happy? Or did you just learn it from feeling it? From feeling it, you know, when you're a baby or you see other babies, you hear a little coo and a giggle and you know. Alright, so now let's do a slightly harder one. We have a second emotion for everybody to show. So everybody show your second emotion for a few seconds. And now we're gonna do a poll to say what ask students what this emotion is. Is it happy, sad, scared or surprised? All right, almost everybody's voted. Can we share the results out? All right, so we had surprise was the most popular vote, but scared was the second vote. And there's at least at 10% of people thought that we were scared. And so we're trying to decide whether we're scared or surprised. This one's a little bit harder. Can we unmute Nikki, who is showing us her emotions? Nikki, I'm gonna unmute you for a second. Oh, it's not working. Nikki, can you show us your surprise face again? And where are you calling us from? Iran. From where? Tehran, Iran. Oh, Tehran in Iran. That's pretty amazing. So, one of the things we want to ask you, said that when you were showing your surprise faced, what were you doing with the different parts of your face? Show to us again. You open your mouth usually, when you're surprised. And Kat, when you are looking at Nikki and trying to judge if she's surprised or not, are you again trying to look piece by piece for different parts of her face, or just feeling it from looking at the whole face? It's a feeling because when I'm surprised my eyes get really, really big, and my mouth doesn't get as big. But for Nikki, her mouth got big and her eyes didn't get quite as big but I guess if I was artificial intelligence, I would be like looking for like, those two things, big eyes, or big open mouth with no teeth. So now we're gonna have Kat show us all one emotion. But we're gonna make this harder for everybody. We're gonna ask Kat to cover up her face, and show us only your eyebrows. Go, Kat cover up your face a little bit higher. I'll tell you when you're just high enough so we see. A little bit more. All right, we can see your eyebrows. Okay, so now Kat, what was the emotion that we told you. You can choose actually yourself between happy, sad, scared or surprised. Pick one of those three happy, sad, scared or surprised? And then we're gonna have a poll to have people decide which one she is. Alright, let's see the poll up on screen. Is Kat happy, sad, scared or surprised? All right, there's over 700 people voting. Can you lower it a little bit to show us your eyes now Kat, in case that helps the people who haven't voted yet And then all right, now go all the way down. All right, now let's show the results of the poll. All right, can people tell what she does now that we saw her full face if you show the poll result, it was a split between sad and scared, when we just saw her eyebrows. Is because we couldn't see the entire face. And can you correct that one in AI is doing this stuff. It is seeing the entire face as well. But you know, keep in mind as we did this example, it wasn't nearly as automatic. Because we couldn't just instantly feel it. We had to use some logic. If our eyebrows are raised, maybe she's surprised. If they're kind of scrunched up, maybe she's sad or angry or scared. Oh, yeah. And sometimes as humans and I've learned this from acting so much is that even when you're sad, sometimes you can be crying while you're laughing or when you're surprised, you can also be scared. You know, I think that the complexity of us as people, especially as young girls, you know, it's not just as maybe an AI would recognize it, you know, maybe we're happy but we're pensive or thinking about something but doesn't mean that we're sad just means that our minds are on something. So it's important to feel things as people, you know, and that's, I think, what gives us the upper hand with AI emotionally. Now, when you were all the students who are trying to figure out Kat's emotions based on just looking at her eyebrows, you have to think through some like kind of logic of if her eyebrows are raised, or if her eyes are squinting, you couldn't do it automatically. When it comes to artificial intelligence, those are also two ways we can program a computer, their traditional way of programming a computer is to say, if you see this, then that and what's really new in the past few years, is computers have become fast enough that they can start learning the way humans do. Just by trial and error and experience in recognizing patterns. If they see enough happy faces a computer can learn what a happy face is, if they see enough sad faces and across different examples. Of course, when we do this, these computers can start developing capabilities we didn't intend. And so we need to be careful how we do it. So Kat, when we think about AI, what are some of the positive effects or uses of AI and ways that can be used to help make the world a better place? I'm so glad that you asked me that because I was kind of opposed to AI for a very long time. I watched too many movies. And I'm like they're gonna take over, robots are gonna take over. But no. I've had friends that have been developing different AI where they are able to record somebody for a very long period of time and recreate their facial structures in 3D and record their answers, ask them hundreds of questions. And these people have memories from being at the march with Martin Luther King. And or they're people like Deepak or other teachers that are incredibly helpful. I think that if there was a way for us to have an AI Albert Einstein or even like Neil deGrasse, or these incredible teachers and these kind of prolific thought leaders, that we can all get answers or even advice from, because of a long recorded amount of knowledge and information that this AI technology has been able to combine. I think that we all have our favorite. You guys just nod if you have somebody in your mind that you would love to just get on the phone with and ask a question to one FaceTime, and they just answer you. You guys have somebody you can think of that you would just wanna call up and just be like Mr. Albert Einstein or Abraham Lincoln, or, you know, President Obama, you know that there's so many incredible teachers, that we would be able to have access to that normally we might not or wouldn't feel the same way as reading their words in a textbook or just, you know, reading something or an article online, but being able to talk to somebody, you know, I think that's a really cool benefit of AI. And I think that, you know, we're all gonna see it in our lifetime. I think it's already started. So Kat, I know you're really passionate about the global refugee problem and working with the United Nations on this even issues that the refugee problem can be helped using AI. Can you share a little bit more about your passion about this and how the UN can use refugees? Yes, so here's what's interesting, and this is something that I didn't even know until you invited me on to your show. And I'm like, I don't know coding. The last time I coded was on my space account. Like, I don't know how to code. And how can I be of service to such amazing coders like you guys watching. You guys wipe the floor with me in terms of coding. You guys can run the world. You guys are the future leaders, the future Bill Gates and Zuckerberg and all that. You guys you can't even fathom your power. So I was going back into what I do in my passion, which is helping refugees and making sure that they have a spotlight. So the UNHCR has developed a technology to analyze social media posts with AI to detect xenophobia, particularly on Twitter, right. And this project will allow the refugee agency that is there to protect and help and support refugees, to understand the sentiment of the general public if people are being open to refugees, if people are being discriminatory, and it's there to help counter negative messages. So the UNHCR also uses AI technology to predict forced displacement, to predict migration trends, therefore, they can be more proactive in their approach, better allocate resources to help refugees. And here's something for you guys. If you guys want to work for the United Nations, I mean, I think you probably have to be 18+, because I know there's a couple 13 year olds that are like, "Yeah, let's do it." The UNHCR receives an average of approximately 6000 to 8000 applications a month and they actually use AI. They leverage it to identify the right talent. So, you know, that's something that's really, really amazing. And one thing that the UNHCR really, really, really, really, really, really, really needs, they need diversity in their STEM related teams. So that's science, technology, engineering and math. So to all my young girls and boys out there, keep developing your coding and data skills, because the United Nations is definitely looking for you guys. And they need a lot of support, and they need a lot of help. And there's a way that even when you're coding, you can help make this world a better place. So I'm excited for you guys to find your passion and whatever that is within coding, if it's making, you know, really cool games, which can help make the world a more fun place if it's to help the UN in their STEM teams. I mean, there's just so much you can do with coding, so much. Thank you so much Kat. Well, I know you're short on time. So we're gonna need to say goodbye, we switch to gallery view. And Sophia play a round of applause for Kat. Let's all wave goodbye to Kat. Thank you so much. I love you guys. I'm so proud of you. I am so inspired by you guys. And I'm gonna keep checking in on all you guys and what you're doing, and thank you Hadi for giving me this opportunity to meet so many awesome brilliant kids. You guys are kicking so much butt. This is so inspiring. So thank you. I love you guys. Keep going, going on this world. Thank you so much. You're so welcome. Okay, bye guys. Keep kicking butt. Thank you. So I'd like to welcome our next special guest who is Kate Park. Kate is a senior product manager for artificial intelligence at Tesla. Kate, are you there with us. I am. Hello. Hi, it's great to see you. Where are you calling us from? I'm in San Francisco, California. It's very beautiful right now. Yeah, it looks sunny out there. So you're a senior PM for AI at Tesla. What does that mean? Are Tesla automobiles intelligence? Yeah. So for those of you who don't know, Tesla builds cars, but those cars are very smart. And so they have computers that can help drive. And as a senior AI Product Manager, I help build those computers that help people drive Teslas. So you are just a few years out of university. Can you tell us a bit about the pathway you took to get to Tesla. If Sofia wants to work at Tesla one day, how would she follow in your footsteps? Definitely. So I graduated just two years ago in 2018. And yeah, but I know the age. But I really loved math when I entered middle school, and so I realized the more and more problems that I saw, the more interesting they got. And when I got to college, which you can go to if you wanna study even more, I studied AI. And one of the great things is you have summers off, just like for school, you might go to summer camp or go on vacation. But during those summers off, I did internships, which is an opportunity to work at a company. And so for me, I worked 3 months at Uber. Have you guys used Uber before? It's the app that lets you get a ride, go somewhere else. Sofia is naughty. And then I worked at Google building voice assistants. So Google Assistant can help you do things. You can say, "Hey Google, play my favorite song." And then I realized through these mini work experiences that I really wanted to work on something where computers can help people. And that's how I came to Tesla because I really thought we can help people drive better and be safer on the roads. And that'd be a wonderful thing. Last week we had Scott Forstall, the inventor of iOS on and he had basically, he spent his summers internships as well. And it's pretty neat that if you study computer science in university, if you're good enough at it, you can end up spending your summer working on some of the products that you use in your daily life. So let's continue with today's episode where our word of the day has been artificial intelligence. And we've been talking about how computers learn, while also considering how computer science can be used for good. Let's go into our next segment, which is about training data. And just like we all learn together, at how computers can learn automatically to learn the difference between being happy and sad, just from experience, computers can also learn from from experience in the same way as we did, but to get that experience they need training data. I also wanna mention before we go into this, if anybody has questions for Kate, you can submit them at code.org/questions. And hopefully at the end of the episode, we'll have a chance to go through one or two questions from the audience. But speaking about training data, let's see an example of how we can train a computer to recognize patterns just like we've learned how to recognize happy from sad. What we're gonna do is show an example on code.org, where we train a computer AI to recognize fish, so we can clean the oceans because none of us wanna have an ocean that is full of trash. So I'm gonna go to this example and I want all of the students tell me this together. So what we're gonna do is we're gonna take everybody off of mute so we can hear everybody and you can basically yell out and help me with this one. So tell me all together. Is this a fish? (group saying no) (group saying yes) How about this one? (group saying yeah) (group saying no) All right, hey do you think we've got enough data now to try to recognize. Let's put everybody on mute except for me and Kate. So we'll probably need more training data, more examples to actually make this computer learn what is a fish or what is trash. So I think we need a few more. Well let's see what it's gonna do for just in 11 examples. We're gonna go and basically test this computer that's been given 11 examples and the AI is gonna now try to clean the ocean by recognizing fish from not fish. Alright, I got it right. Whoa, that wasn't so good. That pulled out the trash there. Okay, it's doing a pretty good job. Good job AI. Wait, that's not a fish. All right, so we're gonna go to the sock, but it put the cannon there so we can. The good thing is AI can go super fast, computers can do things quickly, but they can make mistakes. So if I continue to see all of the fish that decided to put inside the ocean, we can see basically the full screen of all the fish. This is basically everything that the AI thought was fish. And include some apple cores and some garbage. So Kate, if we want to have the AI do better at this, what would we need to do? So the AI learns from the training example. So we need to give it more examples so it can learn better and better. And so we need to give it even more data, more labels. Right, if we want to click train more, we could continue doing this and after 100 or 200 tries, it can be perfect at doing this. Now, the other thing you may have noticed is basically if this AI is putting fish from garbage, and then I've actually went and trained it with Sophia for a few hundred times and got really good at that. But what I wanted to show is, after you've done that, if you then suppose you wanted to have this AI be used to separate items that are fish or not fish. What if we use this training data and then actually decided what belongs in the water. And what would happen to other sea creatures other than fish if we hadn't used them in the training data and what would be some of the unintended consequences. So let me see what happens when we run that same AI, the program to get better even after we've trained it perfectly, let's see what it does. We never showed it about octopuses, or jellyfish or cracks. And so what happens is if you only show it one type of training data, such as fish, but never teach it about crabs or snails or lobsters, and then try to use that to clean the oceans, it might identify other living creatures as trash. So can you think of examples Kate in the real world, but that are similar to this. Are things that you run into at Tesla that might be similar? Definitely. So computers, you know, they only learn what we tell them to learn. So for example, if you have, let's say, a computer that's looking at a picture, and it's trying to recognize who's a girl versus a boy, but it's never seen boys with long hair or girls with short hair, it might not do well. Similarly, for Tesla, since I work on computers that can see things like stop signs. We see a lot of big red stop signs, you know, on the road, that says STOP. But in Hawaii, those stop signs are blue. And we never saw that before. Yes, on private property. So we need to give those examples that training data, so the model, the computer can do its homework and perform well. So what I wanna show next is how we can teach with the same model that was basically the same AI that is learning how to fish from, you know, trash or fish. I wanna show an example of using AI and emotion to the computer or something and basically to teach them new work. So basically, we want to help AI choose to learn to detect fish that are angry or hungry, or happy or fierce or playful. But before we choose this, let's do a poll and have the audience actually decide what order we want to teach. So let's put a poll up on screen so you can choose between spooky, happy, fast, silly, fun, fierce, scary. This is gonna be a tough race. So about a third of you voted. I see an early winner, but it's a really, really tight race between what people want to see. All right, almost everybody has voted now. All right, can we close the votes and share the results? Fierce, just barely beat out silly at the very last moment. So I try to teach the AI what fierce fish looks like. So where's fierce. So now what I want to do is I wanna get help from some of our students. So can we unmute Dior, Liam and Nirbhay. There's three of you who we've unmuted who are gonna work with us to help us identify the fish that are fierce. Right, so Kate, let me know is this fish fierce? Let me see. That does not look fierce. Not fierce. Okay, Sophia. Is this fish fierce? No. No. All right Nirbhay, is this fish fierce? No. No. All right Dior, is this fish fierce? No. Definitely not. All right, Liam. How about this fish? Is this fish fierce? I,m gonna say no. No. Right Kate, how about this fish? Yes. That looks fierce. That looks fierce. Sophia, how about this one? No. Dior, what do you think about this one? Fierce? No. Not fierce. Alright, Liam, how about this fish? That's not fierce. Exactly not. Nirbhay, how about this fish? No. Not fierce. There's not so many fierce fish here. This one's not. So I'm gonna go through some of these faster. Kate, would you agree that this one's fierce. Ah no. No. Rob this weird fish of the mouth that's not on notice buddy. What do you think Sophia? Needs pointy... Not fierce. That's too smiley to be curious. How about this one Liam? What do you think about this fish? Is this fierce? No. No, 'cause it's got kind of weird eyes. Dior what do you think about this fish? Is this fierce? I was like, sure. It looks a little bit shark like. All right. Nirbhay how about this fish? Two more. No, No. And Kate, what do you think about this fish? Ah, I'm gonna say yes, it's a little fierce. All right, we've given 19 examples of fish that are fierce and not fierce. And what's been interesting, we've been combining everybody's opinions together. So I'm not sure how well the computer will do for a couple of reasons. First of all, one question we should ask when we're training AI is, is it fair to judge something by its looks? Is it fair maybe a fish has super sharp teeth but it might be a very friendly shark to fish and not be very fierce. Also we're combining everybody's opinion so I think it's AI might be kind of confused from combining our opinions, but let's run through it and see how it does. So we're gonna have this AI look at a whole bunch of fish and identify which ones are fierce and which ones are not fierce. And we can speed this up again and do this quickly. And I'm gonna click continue to see the end results after it looks at 100 fish. These are all the fish that had decided where the fierce ones, What is that fish doing? And I can click to see the ones that I thought were not fierce. These are the notch fierce fish. So did a reasonable job those are not fierce, and these are fierce with just about 18 examples. What's more, I mean, there's some of these that aren't so fierce looking, like look at this. This pink one is not super fierce looking if you asked me. What's interesting is you can also click to see what was the AI looking for. So it looked based on the examples we gave it, the colors and the body shape, and the eyes were the most important things to detect whether fish was fierce or not. And its mouth was relevant is to detect that it's not fierce. So for example, I can click on this pink one, and said, because of its color, if it's pink color means that it's fierce. Or this one, because of its mouth, it thought it was fierce and also the dorsal fin. So as we're giving the training data, just like when you all were recognizing emotions based on eyebrows or mouth or so on, the AI is doing the same thing based on the different parts of the fish. So that's pretty interesting how we can train AI so quickly. Okay, what are some of the potential problems here? In terms of how this was working? So you mentioned like we were giving where we could have confused the AI. And that happens if you give conflicting answers. So imagine for a test, I gave you all the answers, but I gave you a lot of different answers for the same question. You'd be confused on which one is really the correct one, and how to learn that type of problem. So making sure your training data or the examples that you give to the AI, making sure that it's clean is really important. Yep. So I want to before we get to the next part of episode, we want to do some trivia questions. Sofia are you ready for trivia time? Yes. So we're gonna take a quick break for trivia questions. So let's put today's trivia poll up on the screen. The question is what is a Turing test? Option 1 is an international exam to find the best computer science students. Option 2 is a test to see if a computer can seem so intelligent as to fool a human. And option 3 is a way to test the quality of training data you provide AI as its learning. Okay, do you know the answer to this one? I think I do. Should I say it? No, don't say it, 'cause people are still voting. All right, we have a clear winner in terms of what people think is the right answer, but it's not what they think. Let's share the results of what our students thought. So most people thought a Turing test is a test to test the quality of training data. But a Turing test is actually something that Alan Turing, a famous computer scientist, came up with this idea in 1950, 70 years ago. His idea was to see if a computer could communicate with you in text. Maybe it could fool you into thinking it was human. Like you could write to the computer and say, "Are you human?" And it would say, "Yes, I'm human." And you could say, "What's your name?" And they could come up with a name. Or you could say how old it is. So Kate, if you are communicating with a computer on text, how would you try to figure out if you're writing a human or a machine? How would you try to tell the difference? That's a great question. So, chat bots, were one of the first AI technologies. And if I was talking to a chat bot, and I wanted to try to break it, I'd probably ask pretty tough questions like, what do you feel today? Do you have any memories? Things that maybe people didn't think about creating rules for? 'Cause if I ask it, 'Oh, what's 2 + 2? It can probably find out and calculate that's 4. But a more trickier question like what's your earliest memory might show that it's actually computer instead of a human. I would probably ask it where were you when 9/11 happened? Oh, that's a great question. Especially if it was old enough, but that's just the type of thing where unless it's programmed to know that, like, you know, anybody who was alive back when 9/11 happened anywhere in the world remembers where they were. Or how do you feel about being stuck inside during a pandemic? Thanks so much for talking about that. So now let's get to the third part of our episode, where we're gonna learn about machine learning. We've been talking about artificial intelligence, but machine learning is slightly different, similar, but different. Can you tell us what is the difference between machine learning and artificial intelligence? These words get used quite a bit. Yeah, this is a really good distinction. So AI or artificial intelligence is the broad category of meaning a computer is being smart or intelligent. But machine learning is a specific type of AI, where it's learning things from patterns, that it learns from a lot of training data. So what we just did with figuring out what's a fish versus trash, that's an example of pattern matching from a lot of data, which is machine learning. So if AI is, you know, all a fruit, machine learning is a specific type of fruit like an apple. But there are other types of fruits and other types of AI. Some other AI's that aren't machine learning include, you know, WALLE in the movie, it's a robot that can love and clean, that's an AI. Or if you want to go to Disneyland, and you look up how to get there on Google Maps, when Google Maps tells you, "Oh, take this highway and this road." That's also AI, but it's not based on machine learning. So there's so many technologies out there that are AI and machine learning. So machine learning is basically the pattern matching based on looking at data and recognizing patterns in that data. What are some uses of machine learning that you're excited about that are gonna make the world a better place in the next 10, 20 years? So I'm specifically working on making machine learning help people drive. So machine learning helps us figure out what color is the traffic light? Is it red? Should I stop? Or is it green? And should I go. But machine learning has also helped us, you know, figure out what to buy. So let's say you read the first Harry Potter book, machine learning algorithm might suggest you should read the second Harry Potter book. And that recommendation is based on what other people similar to you like or don't like. If you've ever used Alexa or Siri, those are also examples that can be based on machine learning. And so I think more and more tools and games and tech will start to be based on these machine learning algorithms. What are some of the concerns you have about the usage of machine learning? I think people need to be really careful about what data they give to these machine learning computers. Because if we're saying what the correct answer is, and we're biased, the computer is gonna learn that same bias. Or if we don't give enough examples, like, you know, we never showed the computer what a jellyfish was, then the computer won't know. So it's really important that we give the right data. And we make sure that data represents everything that matters. This isn't a small deal, this is gonna be one of the biggest issues which we are gonna have to deal with. If you consider that even today, right now, AI and artificial intelligence using machine learning is already being used to help parents decide who should get a loan when they want to buy a house, or to help employers decide who should get a job, or to help the judges decide who should go to jail for a given crime. And if an AI is using machine learning to make these decisions, it's only gonna be as fair as the people who programmed them. And if you think about it, we don't live in a world or as humans, we're completely fair. We live in a world where gender equality is still just an idea. But all around the world, women still get paid only 15% less than men for doing the same work. We live in a time when the world leaders are time people to be scared of immigrants and foreigners in China that use AI to track and oppress religious minorities. Here in America and the land of the free world, people are supposed to be equal, we see regular examples of racism. And people even policemen literally murder black people in broad daylight, including just two days ago, which is something that has been super bothersome if you just read the news. So far own society and culture is being programmed to have gender bias, xenophobia and racism. How are we gonna program AI to be more fair, and just if the AI is gonna make these decisions for us, this is especially concerning because the AI learns from the data that we give it and the patterns that we give it. And so it has the risk of repeating history and historical biases against different groups. And I think it's super important that the creators of these algorithms. So it's you know, you when you're growing up and making these computers are these machine learning algorithms that you'd think of all of those cases, and actually test that your technology is working properly. That's a really great point. So I wanna show one example of machine learning for learning images using computer vision. And this time, we're gonna use something called teachable machine, which is a tool that basically lets you train a computer's camera to see things. And we're gonna use a second camera on my computer, so this might be briefly glitchy. What we're gonna do is Sofia is gonna train this computer to recognize two different emotions. So the first emotion we're gonna teach a computer just like we did at the beginning of the episode is to recognize a happy face. So the first class of emotion is happy. For the second class of emotion, I wanna have the audience decide what emotion Sofia should train. So we put a poll up on the screen and decide what should be the second emotion Sophia shows. All right, so she could be either scared or surprised or shocked. Alright, let's quickly vote on what she tries. Alright, we have a pretty clear winner. So let's choose this. All right, so most people wanted Sofia to show herself being shocked. So, shocked, will be our second example. So what we're gonna do is now we're gonna use the webcam. And Sofia is gonna show a happy face. And I can click to record pictures of Sofia being happy. You should take yourself out. I'll be outside of the field. Alright, and Sofia move around a little bit, so it sees you in different positions on the screen all being happy. So we have 15 pictures of Sofia being happy. Now let's go to Sofia being shocked. Shocked is sort of like... Alright, be shocked. Not too happy, not happy, shocked, regular shocked. Alright, move around a little bit. And I'm holding us down to record 50 examples. So now we have 52 images of Sofia being shocked, and 51 of her being happy. And so I'm going to click to train the model. This is now 100 images, each of them has about a million pixels in there. So there's 100 million pixels of data that the computer is gonna be looking at. Kate, when you are a Tesla training, using training, machine learning to recognize stop signs or things like that, how many pictures does it take to get a computer to be really good at figuring that out? We're using, you know, over 100,000, maybe millions of images, but it's not only the quantity, we make sure all of those images are really different. So big stop sign, stop sign on the side of the road. Different colors, stop signs, it's really important to make that dataset diverse and large. So weird, yeah. So we just used only 50 images this time. Let me share back the screen where we were doing this. So this model just got trained. And now what we can do is this trained model now is gonna look at Sofia. And what Sofia is gonna do is she's gonna show a happy face you're showing a happy face, no computer sees her being happy. Now when I say go Sofia, I want you to change your shocked face. Ready, set, go. And see the computer saw that she's shocked, and I go to happy again. And I show angry. Computer doesn't notice. She thinks you're still happy 'cause we haven't trained it. Now show us shocked again. So now let's see if the computer can tell what I'm doing now that we've trained it with Sofia. Okay, it sees that I'm happy, fascicle sharp. It's a little confused. So you can see we train the computer on what I want to feel looks like but it doesn't do quite as well. It does a perfect job 100% at the time it finds Sofia's happy face and her shocked face, but it doesn't do as well when it's looking at me. And that's basically shows us that we need a more diverse training sets to make this work. Kate, can you also relate this to some of the work that you're doing to Tesla. There's so many examples. So, you know, whether it's animal detection, and we want to figure out "Oh, is there a dog or a cat on the road," and then in Australia, there are Tesla's and we see a kangaroo. And we don't wanna miss the kangaroos. So making sure that you have all these diverse examples from all around the world. All types of weather, different daylight, that's really important. So it's not just about putting your face in different positions of the camera. You know, I could change the lighting, I could wear a different colored shirt. Those are all ways to make your data examples more diverse. This is also really rolled up in medicine, because the future of medicine is using exactly the same kind of computer vision, to look at x rays to find pneumonia, or to look at MRIs to detect cancer, because the human eye may not see the cancer quickly, as well as a computer can because it's just, you know, just a bunch of colors and things on a screen. But when you're trying to train a computer to do that, it needs to be shown examples of cancer in men, in women, from different races, from different ages, because it might look different inside the human body and a computer that's been trained to detect cancer in men may not be able to just as equally detect it in women. And you can have literally life threatening issues happening if we don't get the best representation of data for dummies. So for all of you who've been following along, we wanna still give you a chance to do some of the same things we've been doing as well. So we're gonna send you exercises that you can do. First is gonna be using the AI for oceans tool. So you can train AI normally to recognize fish from trash like we did, but to try recognizing those different emotions like fierce fish, or silly fish or so on. Next we're gonna have you use the computer vision teachable machine thing that we just showed you. Our Sophia was showing happy and sad. But this week's exercise will be to make your own Rock paper scissors game to have your computer distinguish a rock from a paper from a scissor. And by that can work either on a laptop or even on a phone. So for those of you who have trouble with not having enough computers at home, you can do it on your phone as well. You can also use it to recognize sounds like snaps and claps. So if you don't have get weekly emails, sign up with your email address at code.org/break. I will send this week's exercises to you in about an hour. And when you're finished, please take a video of yourself while you're doing this and if your parents have social media accounts, please share photos of your learning to social media and have your parents use #Code Break. We have two more episodes left of code break, and we can't wait to have you join to the next two episodes. For next week's episode, our special guests include the actress China and McLean. And also Susan Wojcicki, the CEO of YouTube, are gonna be joining us for next week's code break. We can't wait to have you on board. Can we switch to gallery view and everybody give a big thank you and a round of applause to our special guest, Kate Park in Tesla. [Kate] Thank you. (group saying bye) Join us everybody. Take a code break. Thank you all and see you next week. (upbeat music)