[Avicii 'Wake Me Up'] My name is Aloe Blacc. I'm a signer and a songwriter and entertainer. [Avicii 'Wake Me Up'] When it became more and more important for artists to have a presence on the internet, I quickly developed the skill to build a website, and get online, and use my knowledge of coding to make it so that people could learn more about our music. Every bit of data or information can be stored digitally. Whether it's numbers, text, pictures, music, or video, all of it can be represented digitally. That means the information can be represented by electrical signals that are on or off, or as ones and zeros, so to speak. But representing information in ones and zeros can take up a lot of space. For example, if you wanted to store a three minute song digitally, it would take up over 30 megabytes of space. A one hour HD video would take 800 gigabytes. In the real world, digital information is compressed, to take up less space. A 30 megabyte song can be compressed down to 3 megabytes. An hour long video can be compressed from 800 gigabytes down to just 1 gigabyte. Sometimes compression is lossy, which means that to save some space, some of the information is thrown away. For example, an image can be compressed to a lower resolution to lose some detail. Lossy compression is useful because in many cases the human eye or ear can't even notice the details that are being lost. When you compress data without losing any details, that's called lossless compression. This means the compressed data can be decompressed back into the exact original. One way of doing lossless compression is to find patterns in the data you're trying to compress. As an extreme example, imagine a book about dogs with hundreds of pages using only one word. Each page just says dog. Dog, dog, dog, dog, over and over a million times. Instead of writing it all out you could just store the pattern, dog times 1,000,000. Now that's a silly example, but let's look at a more real example. Instead of a book, imagine the lyrics of a song. If a single words or phrase is repeated a lot, you can store that once and then reuse it without repeating the data. The repetition in a song lyric or poem is obvious, but really any form of information can have repetition or patterns in it. They're just not as obvious. For example, an outdoors photo can have a blue sky, and instead of storing every single blue pixel, that can be compressed. With the amount of information that's digitized and sent around the internet every day, there are much fancier ways to compress the data. Data compression is now built into how every picture or song, or movie, is stored, and almost every webpage you visit is compressed as it's sent to your device. All these compression algorithms have one thing in common. They all aim to represent the information in the smallest format possible, in a way that can be decompressed to reconstruct the original, or at least something close to it.