One thing that's great about computer science is it's a greatly equalizing field. You can sit and build something I can sit and build something and people can judge us based on what we've built. In almost every aspect of human experience software is becoming more part of the DNA, more part of the genetics of how the product works or how the service works and that's reason why it's very important for everyone to have experience with software. When you have a diverse set of engineers in the room building hardware and software it means that that hardware and software ends up being way more accessible to a diverse set of customers. And having even a little bit of grounding in computer science can help you think about the world differently. Whether that's algorithms or whether that's just creativity. Kids have to have that basic understanding of computer science in order to do anything and it really doesn't matter what industry you're in. So whether it's marketing, product design, financial analysis having software skills in every one of those domains... it'll make a big difference. It's not about being a girl or being a boy It's about being talented. Computer science needs more talented people. People who are not afraid of being creative and making the world a better place. If we could just, you know support girls and give them that initial encouragement then we can start balancing the scales and then we won't even have to play with the equation because it will just be a natural flow. Computer science can unlock the best opportunities in the world no matter where you are. There's never been a better, more exciting time to be a computer scientist. Technology touches every part of our lives so if you can change technology you can change the world. An estimated 20% of U.S. students have a code.org account and right now 600,000 teachers use code.org. Today 9 million code.org students are female that's an incredible leap from just a few short years ago when women and girls just weren't getting the support they needed. When I think about what we're gonna be teaching in schools 5, 10, 15 years from now I definitely think that computer science is going to be as important of a skill as being able to do basic reading and writing. When people look back at what is genuinely an important national movement, the movement of computer science into America's mainstream education, They will appreciate that code.org was not only in the center but was absolutely at the forefront of all of this. Thank you for supporting code.org! Subtitles by the Amara.org community