Which grade are you in? second, tenth grade, first grade I was in the eight grade when I learned to program. I got my first computer when I was in the sixth grade. What gets me excited is being able to fix peoples problems. You can express yourself; you can build things from an idea. Computer science is the basis for a lot of the things that students and proffesionals will do for the next 20 or 30 years. I like programming because I like helping people. I get the opportunity to build something that's gonna make people's life easier. I think this is the closest thing we have to superpower. Getting started is the most important part. I'm a beginner myself and I want you to learn with me. Hi, my name is Lyndsey, I majored in theater in college, but I also majored in computer science. And now I model, act and write my own apps. Let's use code to help Anna and Elsa as they explore the magic and beauty of ice. You'll create snowflakes and patterns as you iceskate and make a winterwonderland which you can share with your friends. In the next hour, you're going to learn the basics of how to code. Traditional programming is usually in text, but we will use blockly which uses visual blocks, thatyou can drag and drop to write programs. This is how even university students learn the basics. Under the hood, you are still creating code. The concepts that you will be learning are concepts which computer programmers are using every day and are the foundation of computer science. A PROGRAM is a set of instructions that tell a computer what to do. Let's build a code for a program that will help Elsa to create a simple line. We will use this later to create more complex patterns. Your screen is split into three main parts On the left is the ice surface where you will run your program. The instructions for each level are written right below the surface. This middle area is the toolbox and each of these blocks is an action Elsa and Anna can do. The white space on the right is called the workspace and this is where we will build our program. To move around the ice surface, you will use the "move forward"block. Here the move forward block says "Move forward by 100 pixels". When we press run... What happens? Elsa moves forward a certain amount on the screen... 100 pixels in fact. Pixels are basically very tiny squares on your computer screen. The other block in the puzzle sais "turn right by 90 degrees". When we use the "turn right"block, that makes elsa turn a certain amount. You can play around with how far you want elsa to turn. The angle is measured from the path ahead of Elsa, so this is the 90 degree turn... and this is an 120 degree turn. And remember, you can change the number of pixels or degrees by clicking the arrows next to them.