Hi! My name is Jess. I'm a member of the professional learning team at Code.org. In this video, I'm going to take you on a short tour of the Code.org website. Once you are signed into your teacher account, you will be brought to your teacher homepage. This is where you will go to view and manage your classroom sections, access courses that you have already made progress on, and find additional resources. After you create classroom sections, all of your sections will show up in the classroom sections area of your home page. Once students begin to make progress on your courses, you will be able to track that progress, using your teacher dashboard. To access your teacher dashboard, simply click on the name of the section that you would like to view. Once here, you will be able to view progress, either by the individual lesson, or by levels within a lesson. You will also be able to view text responses, assessment results, projects, and classroom statistics. If you need to edit or manage your class list, simply click on the "Manage Students" tab. Once here, if you would like to switch to view a different section, simply use the switch section button. To return to your homepage at any time, you can click on the Code.org logo in the upper left hand corner of your screen. To view content of a course, you can click on the name of the course, in the courses column of your classroom sections area. This will bring you to the course overview page. This page will give you a short description of each unit. Within the course, there is also a blue teacher resources drop down, that you can use to access additional resources for teaching the unit. If you would like to view information about a specific unit within the course, you can move to that unit, and click on the "Go to Unit" button. This will bring you to the unit overview page. On the unit overview page, you will be able to scroll down and learn more about each individual lesson within the unit. On the top of this page, you have again, a teacher resources drop down. However, this time, the resources are specific to the unit you are teaching. You have printing options, and the ability to view and modify a unit calendar based on the number of minutes you meet with your students per week. In the area below, you will find a short description of each lesson within the unit. From this area, you will be able to access resources for the lesson, and manage whether or not your students are able to see the content, by using the Visible and Hidden buttons. Each unit within the course has a course lesson plan. To access the lesson plan, click on the blue "View Lesson Plan" button. This will take you to the lesson plan for the lesson. Each lesson plan contains an overview, purpose, assessment opportunities, standards, and a short agenda. Below, you will find a detailed teaching guide, that will guide you through teaching the lesson with your students. Also for each lesson, there are lesson objectives, information about preparing to teach the lesson, and additional links to resources for both teachers and students. Once here, if you would like to visit a lesson plan for a different lesson within the unit, you can use the purple "Other lessons in unit" drop down. To return to the unit overview page, you can click on the back arrow. To return to your home page, you can always click on the Code.org logo in the upper left hand corner of your screen. If you have any questions about things that you saw in this video, or need additional support while teaching the course, you can click on the question mark in the upper right hand corner of your screen to access additional support and resources.