Less than half of schools in the U.S. don't teach computer science. But state by state that is changing. I'm of the generation they didn't teach coding so these kids are teaching me. I'm here to show the governor how to code and what I've learned through coding. I'm going to be coding with my governor today. Turn left again. Wow, where are you getting allhow do you know all of this? You started this year? I started this 2 years ago. Now you need the destroy block. And shear the second sheep. All right! We did it, yeah? Mission accomplished! We just did it! You just did it? They taught it to me and it was very effective. It's my first ever line of code. I just taught Governor Hogan how to code in Minecraft. I was probably the only candidate in America that's ever used coding in a political ad. But I got elected on that, it was my signature issue. I'm very proud in Virginia we just made it a core requirement of elementary, middle, and high school. We can be in all parts of our country and have the talent to develop the tech businesses that we need to drive our economy in the future. We're competitive like all the other states and we're doing everything we can to really build out the Hour of Code and make sure we bring down that 75% of schools that aren't offering [computer science]. I think collectively of the states and the governors we can help make that happen. If you are a parent out there, if you're an educator, if you're a student, if you're an employer and you're not actively engaged in how we can pour into the next generation in terms of computer science, coding, and technologywe're missing the boat. It's critical, if you're not paying attention get on board. What is your state doing? Learn more at code.org/promote and at governorsforcs.org. Thank you to the students, parents, and teachers from around the country that helped pull this amazing event together. And thank you to the organizations that supported it Code.org, NGA, Microsoft and the Computer Science Education Coalition. Subtitles by the Amara.org community