So to the G20 organizers, the Ministry of Education of Argentina, and all of the educators present, thank you for hosting me. It is a pleasure and honor to be here today. I would like to start my short presentation with a personal story. This is my story of growing up. That's a picture of me and my twin brother when we were young. We grew up and were born in Tehran in Iran and a few years after this photo was taken, our country broke out into a revolution in a bloody war with the neighboring country of Iraq. I spent most of my childhood in the basement of my house, hoping my home wouldn't get destroyed by bombs. But one day my father brought home a magical gift that changed my life. He gave me a Commodore 64 computer, but this wasn't the magical gift because it had no software, no apps, no games. The magical gift was a book, an introduction to computer programming. And by the time I was 12, 13 years old, I became really good at it. I came to the United States as an immigrant, and by the age of 15, I was working at technology companies to help pay my way through school. And by the time I was 21, I graduated from Harvard as a computer scientist, and by age 30 I had sold my first company and was on to starting my second. I'm really an embodiment and a believer of the idea that the American Dream is a global idea about opportunity, that if you study hard and work hard, you can do whatever you want. But this idea is increasingly feeling like it doesn't work for everybody because of technology's impact on our workforce. We all see the projections about how the workforce is changing. Every year, more and more jobs are getting automated or impacted. Projections are that by the middle of the century, half of all jobs will be automated by technology. The multitrillion dollar question we need to answer is what will the future be for these students? What work will they be able to have? Now we don't need a crystal ball to answer this question. We know the answer. If you look just 15 years back and compare to today, you see a dramatic increase in highly digital jobs, an increase in moderately digital jobs, and a rapid decline of nondigital jobs. Advanced computing skills are increasingly important across all industries, not just STEM fields. So what's the role of education in all this? When we gather together as educators, all the debates about the future of education talk about how we teach. How will we change to use technology in the classroom or do personalized education? We need to have a greater debate about what we teach. When we think about what we teach, what are the students learning? If you go to any school in 2018, most schools teach the same topics that they used to teach in 1918. In every school in the world, students spend six months of their life learning how to calculate this equation. Now, I'm not saying that math isn't important, and it's critical to understand division, to understand fractions, to understand algebra. But six months to learn how to do this, we did that because a hundred years ago, this was a critical, vocational skill. Hundreds, millions of jobs in accounting, finance, engineering required rote calculation. Many of the things we teach students today are preparing them for the jobs of the past, and we need to think ahead. In a world of today, students have to learn science. They learn about the digestive system, they learn about how electricity works, they learn Pythagorean theorem regardless of whether they want to become a surgeon, an electrician, or a mathematician. In the 21st century, it is just as important to teach a student how to create an algorithm, or how the internet works. In a world of rapidly advancing technological change, we need to teach students the ability to learn and adapt to new technology. Now, in all of your schools, every school in most countries has an ICT course, but most of these courses only teach students how to use technology, which, increasingly, young kids learn on their own. We need to teach students how to create technology, how to understand and harness technology. This is more important, and imagine what your children will be able to create if they learn this. Now, this is not about coding, even though my hat says "code." This is about computer science. Computer science is a field that includes computer programming, data science, networking, cyber security, robotics, machine learning. It is a full academic field that is changing our world and deserves to be a peer of biology, chemistry, and algebra as a part of the core curriculum in schools. Our vision is that every student in every school should have the opportunity to learn computer science. But most schools don't teach computer science. So the question is, how can we change the global education system? It takes four steps. Step one to global change begins by inspiring students and teachers, and I hope that's something we can start today. 5 years ago we started a movement called the Hour of Code that has engaged 10% of all students in every country. Step 2 is changing policies to encourage or even require schools to offer computer science. This is something all the Ministries of Education in this room can do. Step 3 is to identify free online courses to make computer science accessible. Starting from blockbased programming in first grade all the way to more advanced app creation and physical computing in secondary school. And step 4, possibly the hardest part, is workforce programs to retrain today's schoolteachers to become computer science teachers. We don't need to hire computer scientists or software engineers to teach this skill. We need to retrain our existing teachers. Now, I get asked all the time Can today's public school teachers teach computer science? Now we've been doing this for 5 years in the United States, and from Code.org's work, we have that answer. In five years, we've prepared 80,000 new computer science teachers. And these teachers, thanks to their work 1 out of every 4 students in the entire country is enrolled on Code.org, and the majority of them are young women and minorities. And what have we learned from this? There are three things we've learned. Number 1 Our studies show among participating schools there's a fivefold increase in students studying the field and passing universitylevel exams in the field. And a tenfold increase among underrepresented minorities. Number 2 is probably most interesting to people in this room. Resourceful teachers in our classrooms see a direct connection between increased teaching of coding and computer science to increased scores in reading, math, and science. We don't need to fight about reducing one thing to increase the other. When we teach computer science, we lift all boats. And number 3 this is nearest and dearest to my heart. The students themselves report that they enjoy their class in computer science more than the rest of school. 70% of them want to continue learning computer science after they graduate from secondary school. In the United States students now rank computer science their favorite subject behind only the arts. And that's because of its creativity, because in elementary school they're creating animations, by 7th grade they're creating their own games, by high school they're creating apps. Creativity is what drives us. Imagine what the students in your countries will create. In the words of the students themselves, one 7th grader wrote "I loved it. It was fun, I want to do it over and over again because I enjoyed what I could do." "I enjoyed the interactivity and how it felt to control what happened, it felt really satisfying." "I wish we could do that every day." Imagine if students reacted that way about school. They want to do it every day. That is what is possible. Now, the movement to add computer science to schools is the most uncontroversial and fastestgrowing movement in education. It's supported by all political parties, by business leaders and teacher unions alike, and this is a movement that started with the teachers. Individual teachers, now almost one million of them, have begun teaching computer science in their schools. They've changed curriculum in their own classrooms in their schools. Entire districts and regions have changed courses. In the United States 44 states have changed policies to embrace computer science. And globally, 25 countries have announced national plans to either expand computer science or add it to the core curriculum. Hopefully, Argentina is going to make this move next week, uh, knock on wood. But still, most schools don't teach computer science. This is a problem we'd like to change. I'm going to to back to my own personal story. When I moved to the United States, I was 12 years old, my family was poor, I was much poorer than the rest of the students in my classroom, I had trouble speaking the new language, I had a funny accent, and worst of all, I didn't know how to dress properly to make friends. [laughter] But what I did have is a really good ability to program a computer and a great handle on what became the most valued subject in the entire economy. And, as a result, I've actually built a life for myself far ahead of my dreams. So think about the students in your own countries the ones who need the opportunity the most. Think about how work is changing in the next 20 years. A student that begins school today will be in the workforce 20, 30 years from now. The jobs of today are disappearing. To prepare them for the jobs of the future, we must teach computer science as part of the core curriculum. Thank you very much. [applause] Subtitles by the Amara.org community