Introducing the Hour of Code This December, we're recruiting students from all over the world to participate in 1 Hour of Code. We're aiming for 100 million students, and we need your help to make it happen. The Hour of Code is an hour long introduction to computer science for all students. No previous experience is required and the activities are designed to be selfguided, empowering students to learn at their own pace. This matters because the number of computing jobs in the United States alone is rising 3 times faster than the number of computer science graduates. At this rate, by 2020, there will be more than 1 million computing jobs unfilled. And these are good jobs! We expect to have more than 20 different 1 hour tutorials to choose from, each introducing computer science in it's own way for all students from K12. For example, we're expecting 1 tutorial to teach how to create an interactive card using the programming environment Scratch. Another from KhanAcademy will teach the basics of Javascript, a popular programming language. Our own tutorial will introduce some computer science principles through a series of puzzles that are fun to solve. You can do the Hour of Code on a range of devices tablets, PCs, Macs, and smartphones. There will even be unplugged tutorials that can be completed without any computers at all. Now let's talk about the Hour of Code itself. You can do the Hour of Code anytime between December 8th and December 14th. That's Computer Science Education Week. Our goal is to reach 100 million students worldwide by the end of that week. The first thing you'll need to figure out is where you'll do your Hour of Code. One option is to use a computer lab with Internet connected PCs or Macs. Another option is to do the Hour of Code in your classroom, using tablets or smartphones, as long as they can access the Internet. Students can also take turns doing the Hour of Code in your classroom, using a shared, Internet connected computer. In fact, we encourage students to do the Hour of Code together, in pairs or small groups. Research shows that students retain more when they program together. The unplugged options can be done anywhereeven outdoors. These activities are especially fun for groups and illustrate the point computational thinking does not require a computer. Next, you'll need to select which tutorial to use. The week before the Hour of Code, you'll be able to visit our website at code.org/learn to preview the available tutorials. If you're not sure which tutorial to pick, we'll recommend one for you. We encourage you to try doing the selected tutorial yourself, before your class does it, so you can answer any questions that might come up. Finally, it will be time for your students to do the Hour of Code themselves. Have them visit our website at code.org/learn, and choose the tutorial that you selected. If you're doing an unplugged tutorial, pass out the materials and explain the rules. Your students will enjoy doing the Hour of Code. The tutorials are designed to be fun! Students who finish early can try a different, perhaps more advanced tutorial, or help other students. And that's it! As you see, offering the Hour of Code to your students is easy. It requires minimal prior preparation and no prior experience. In just one hour you'll have given your students an engaging and meaningful exposure to the world of computer science, and help demystify what can be an intimidating subject to some. Go to hourofcode.com and help us make history!