Programming's a game. It's something that you and the computer are working towards together. But you're gonna fail a lot. Just get comfortable with failing because it happens. When you program, you have to get it wrong because that's how you learn. When you do make mistakes you're like "Okay it's fine. I can fix this." Everyone gets bugs. Whether you're a beginner, intermediate, advanced... everyone gets bugs. When a computer is not working the way it's supposed to, the way we want it to, we call that a bug. I get bugs. I totally get bugs. Everyone gets bugs! Debugging is basically just looking through your code and correcting your mistakes and fixing it. There are four really important steps that you want to follow when you're debugging. The first thing you want to do is describe your problem. So figure out what's happening. What did you want your code to do and what is it actually doing? Second step is you want to hunt for bugs. So figure out what is it in your code that's causing that. Step number three is you want to try out small solutions and see how they affect your code. And then finally step four is you want to document what you've learned. Debugging is maybe the number one thing that can help you become a better programmer because you're seeing the mistakes you made. Wait, don't delete that. Can you help me with this for a second? Can you help me with this for a second? Most of the time I spend debugging is finding the bug but once I find it it's easy to fix. What's this? Get out of here bugs. Did your parents put that there? Maybe, I don't know. I like debugging with other people because they are like a second brain which doubles your computing power so you can figure out bugs twice as fast. Dude we did it Experts make bugs. They make big bugs! In fact your goal should be, as you go along make bigger and bigger bugs that need to be squashed because that just means you're doing something worth doing. Y'know, the more you practice, the better you get at it, the easier it will be. I can debug! I can debug and so can you!