Hi, I'm Leigha, and I'm Tanya, and we're lucky enough to be studying computer science. We think it's terrible that 90% of schools don't teach it. They definitely didn't offer it at my high school. So we're trying to make this video to show that anybody can learn. We want to get 10 million students to do the Hour of Code. Hour of Code (repeats) How do you get him to get to the sunflower? He needs to do some actions. I got it ... YAY! Oh! (laughs) And then we'll run it and see what happens Haha, that's amazing! Yeah! There we go! That's pretty easy. You just wrote your first program I wrote it? Yeah! This is the code that you just wrote Very awesome. I thought, like, code was like,FBIhacker symbols and stuff. A little bit of problem solving a little bit of logic. It's like instructions. Programming is a lot easier today. Don't just play on your phone, program it. Alright! Awesome! How does someone go about getting a job? Maybe, take an online class find a class at a community college. You can get one of the best paying jobs in the world. I think medicine's moving into the whole computer age. Technology touches every part of our lives. If you can create technology, you can change the world. So, we're excited that you are participating in today's Hour of Code. We just did 2 lines of code. 3 lines of code! 4 lines, 7 lines, 5 lines, 25 lines of code. I wrote 42 lines of code. 9 lines, 60 lines of code, 99 lines, 60 lines, 18 lines of code, 75 lines of code. It doesn't matter how old you are, Everybody can learn. Hour of Code (repeats) Whether you're a young man or a young woman; whether you live in a city or a rural area, everybody in this country should learn how to program a computer. I just completed the hour of code. It's actually really easy to learn. Girls should learn this too. Understand that language that's going to be the future. Anyone can learn computer science. And you can learn too. Jack Dorsey, Mark Zuckerberg, Bill Gates, all you all. I'm Learning! Give it a shot. the Hour of Code is here Spread it across the country