The lesson we're doing right now is called Conditionals with Cards So if you all can stay quiet for 20 seconds with no noises I will give you recess, an extra 5 minutes of recess Go! ... Whoah, you did it! You guys re gonna get an extra 5 minutes of recess today! That is so neat. OK. So, I have a question for you I just said... "If (something) then (something else" Right? So what did I say? If... Student If you were quiet for 20 seconds... I'll give you an extra 5 minutes of recess If class is quiet Then I'll give you extra recess. If (something is true), then (something else will happen) "It's a reward, if you do something good, you get a reward back!" "If you do something bad, you get consequences" That was very good So did you hear that? Not only did she have an if, She said "(or else)". Has someone ever said If ... or else ... Yeah? Do your parents do that? Class yeah! Ok, so we have an "(else)" What was the "(else)"? If... The class is quiet, extra recess Else... Student do we actually get extra recess? Yes, you actually get extra recess Class yay! There's no way I'd promise you that if you don't get extra recess Student if class is quiet they do (get extra recess), if class is not quiet they don't get extra recess. Teacher no extra recess. And I could have said Or "(else)" you're going to clean up the classroom. Right? Class boos Teacher there are lots of different things I could have said This is called a conditional. Do you guys know what a condition is? So, have you ever heard, maybe your parents, say "I will on one condition, you pick up your shoes right now." Right? Something like that? A condition is either something that happens, or it doesn't. It's true, or it's false. So what we put in here is something that can either be "True", or "False" So, when you guys were quiet for 20 seconds Was it True, or False? Class True So we got to do this part (extra recess) Now if it were False and you weren't quiet? Then what would we have done? Student the bottom part (no extra recess) Would we ever do both? Class no! That doesn't make sense, right? Student unless we're quiet for 10 seconds? Then we would do half and half Other student but you talked. Teacher so that's a compromise and that would have fallen somewhere in the middle (between "if" and "else"). So we could have done something like Else if (class kinda quiet) half extra recess and then we would've had the "else" that was "nothing extra". Right? So what you guys came up with is these "if", "elseif", and "else" statements So you have one condition (the "if"), you have a whole separate condition that we only care about if this one is "False" And then, if this one's "False" and this one's "False", then what do we do? We go to the "else" statement. And that captures everything else, ok? Ok, so now we are going to do an activity where you guys get to use that idea of "if" and "else" Ok, so this first program here says If card is red, award your team one point, else, award other team one point. Right? So, if you draw a red card, what happens? A lot of times teachers are so used to hearing "(if... then...)" that "(if... else...)" sounds unnatural. If you remember that the "then" part is what you do when your condition is "true" then it becomes a lot more comfortable So we were able to use those playing cards to make "if" statements and play a game. And you had a game so that when if you drew a red card you did one thing, otherwise you did something else. In computer science, we call that a conditional, and it helps us make decisions in our program. Because, is a computer as smart as we are? Class no! Teacher no, it's fast but they aren't very good at making their own decisions unless you tell it what you want it to decide. So that's how we use a conditional so that the computer can figure out what's gonna happen and run the program accordingly. Subtitles by the Amara.org community