It's pretty amazing when you start building something that you want it can help change a lot of people's lives as well. And having even a little bit of grounding in computer science can help you think about the world differently. Whether that's algorithms or whether thats just creativity. Computer Science Principles covers lots of topics. Not just programming and coding... we cover bits and binary, we cover how the Internet works, how security works, how data is collected and used and shared. And all of these things help you get a better understanding of how the world works. Now I understand why my phone is so slow. I thought computer science was just, like for y'know, really really smart nerds, geeks, but... it's not. It's for everybody and I think it's something that everybody should learn. In the new economy computer science isn't an optional skill, it's a basic skill. I just think it's important, moving forward in the future that everybody learn it especially kids. I didn't know what I was getting myself in to but like once I had my friends around I knew that if they could do it I can do it. So it's really like brought my confidence up in other classes as well. If you use SnapChat and Instagram and you want to know how that works take Computer Science Principles. Make an app yourself. See how you can share these things with your friends. To be able to code gives you the freedom to build anything. And that is just so empowering! We're doing a lot of teamwork, like group work. Like doing work on paper not just always on the computer. And then when I say "go", we're gonna exchange IP addresses without talking. And I want everybody's IP address. Some of the kids that maybe don't fit into a normal classroom they have an opportunity to kind of try different things and different techniques and different mindsets. It feels more like a puzzle. And you get to take your own route and find the solution. I feel like this class is one of the only classes that challenges me. But I feel like "Y'know what I got this!" Like, this is good. Computer science isn't just about math or computers. If you're interested in designing things, creating things, solving problems... then this class is for you. Subtitles by the Amara.org community