With timestamps:

00:00 - Hi, I'm Mike with Codecademy, and in this video, I'm going to show you how to download and install Android Studio on your Mac computer.
00:06 - Android Studio is an integrated development environment created by Google
00:10 - and once we download it on our computer,
we can then use it to create Android apps.
00:15 - So the first thing you want to do is head over to your web browser, and you're going to go to developer dot android dot com forward slash studio,
00:23 - this is a website where we can download Android Studio.
00:26 - So you can see down here, there should be a big button and it should automatically recognize that we're on a Mac,
00:31 - so we're going to click that Download Android Studio, agree to the terms and conditions, and then we're going to download it.
00:36 - Now this is, kind of, a big file so it might take a minute or two to download but once that's downloaded, head over to your downloads folder,
00:43 - and you're going to click on the dot dmg file that we just got.
00:47 - Then you're going to take the Android Studio icon, drag it into your Applications folder and it's officially downloaded.
00:53 - Now let's open Android Studio and it should pop up.
00:57 - If you've installed this previously on your machine, it might prompt you to restore settings from a previous version.
01:03 - Otherwise, though, you can just click Do not import settings, click OK,
and then delete all old directories.
01:09 - Now let's walk through this Android Studio Setup Wizard. Just click Next, and we're going to click the standard installation, so, once again, we'll click Next,
01:17 - then you can select which UI theme you want, so Darcula or Light, this is a complete personal preference I'm going to click Light.
01:24 - And then here, you can just click Finish. Now this is going to take a couple minutes to just unzip and install everything on your machine,
01:31 - and it'll get everything set up for you.
01:33 - Once that's done installing, this window should pop up here, prompting you to start a new Android project or open an existing one.
01:40 - In future videos, we're gonna discuss what to do here
01:42 - but for now, we've installed and downloaded Android Studio
and you should be ready to go.

Cleaned transcript:

Hi, I'm Mike with Codecademy, and in this video, I'm going to show you how to download and install Android Studio on your Mac computer. Android Studio is an integrated development environment created by Google and once we download it on our computer, we can then use it to create Android apps. So the first thing you want to do is head over to your web browser, and you're going to go to developer dot android dot com forward slash studio, this is a website where we can download Android Studio. So you can see down here, there should be a big button and it should automatically recognize that we're on a Mac, so we're going to click that Download Android Studio, agree to the terms and conditions, and then we're going to download it. Now this is, kind of, a big file so it might take a minute or two to download but once that's downloaded, head over to your downloads folder, and you're going to click on the dot dmg file that we just got. Then you're going to take the Android Studio icon, drag it into your Applications folder and it's officially downloaded. Now let's open Android Studio and it should pop up. If you've installed this previously on your machine, it might prompt you to restore settings from a previous version. Otherwise, though, you can just click Do not import settings, click OK, and then delete all old directories. Now let's walk through this Android Studio Setup Wizard. Just click Next, and we're going to click the standard installation, so, once again, we'll click Next, then you can select which UI theme you want, so Darcula or Light, this is a complete personal preference I'm going to click Light. And then here, you can just click Finish. Now this is going to take a couple minutes to just unzip and install everything on your machine, and it'll get everything set up for you. Once that's done installing, this window should pop up here, prompting you to start a new Android project or open an existing one. In future videos, we're gonna discuss what to do here but for now, we've installed and downloaded Android Studio and you should be ready to go.
