With timestamps:

00:00 - Hey, Code Crew, it's Chris here,
00:01 - I just want to let you know that we have
a brand new community app challenge so far
00:06 - we've done to the weather app
and the stock tracker app.
00:09 - And you guys have all done
a great job with them this month.
00:12 - The challenge is to build an NBA stats
app, which lets you view the results
00:16 - of previous games, a schedule of upcoming
games and also team standings.
00:21 - Here's a preview of our solution.
Hey, Code Crew,
00:25 - this is a preview of a simple solution
for the NBA scores app challenge.
00:29 - The app displays the scores of all games
that happened yesterday,
00:32 - as well as the games that will
happen today and tomorrow.
00:37 - It also has a view for the standings
for both East and Western conferences.
00:42 - Additionally,
00:43 - users can choose a favorite team,
and when they do so,
00:47 - that team's games will be highlighted
and displayed first whenever they play.
00:54 - And to start with will appear
beside their name in the standings.
00:58 - Now, Jesse did an amazing job with this
01:01 - app, but that's just his solution,
yours could look completely different.
01:05 - And just by participating, you'll earn
a nifty new Code Crew form badge.
01:09 - Now, just to reiterate why we're doing
this community app challenges,
01:13 - it's simple practice now without practice,
your learning is all for nothing.
01:18 - Now you have until August 1st
to complete this challenge.
01:20 - And after you do,
there's a link below in the description
01:23 - for you to upload a video of your
completed app, will compile all of your
01:27 - videos together and showcase
them here on YouTube.
01:30 - Now, lastly, if you're brand new to app
development, this challenge may be
01:34 - a little beyond your skill
level at this point.
01:36 - However, I've compiled some great
01:38 - resources to help you
get caught up to speed.
01:40 - Start with our 14 day beginners
challenge right over there.
01:43 - Now, leave me a comment below whether
or not you're going to give this a try.
01:46 - Thanks for watching.
And I'll see you in the next video.

Cleaned transcript:

Hey, Code Crew, it's Chris here, I just want to let you know that we have a brand new community app challenge so far we've done to the weather app and the stock tracker app. And you guys have all done a great job with them this month. The challenge is to build an NBA stats app, which lets you view the results of previous games, a schedule of upcoming games and also team standings. Here's a preview of our solution. Hey, Code Crew, this is a preview of a simple solution for the NBA scores app challenge. The app displays the scores of all games that happened yesterday, as well as the games that will happen today and tomorrow. It also has a view for the standings for both East and Western conferences. Additionally, users can choose a favorite team, and when they do so, that team's games will be highlighted and displayed first whenever they play. And to start with will appear beside their name in the standings. Now, Jesse did an amazing job with this app, but that's just his solution, yours could look completely different. And just by participating, you'll earn a nifty new Code Crew form badge. Now, just to reiterate why we're doing this community app challenges, it's simple practice now without practice, your learning is all for nothing. Now you have until August 1st to complete this challenge. And after you do, there's a link below in the description for you to upload a video of your completed app, will compile all of your videos together and showcase them here on YouTube. Now, lastly, if you're brand new to app development, this challenge may be a little beyond your skill level at this point. However, I've compiled some great resources to help you get caught up to speed. Start with our 14 day beginners challenge right over there. Now, leave me a comment below whether or not you're going to give this a try. Thanks for watching. And I'll see you in the next video.
