With timestamps:

00:00 - Hello I am Sofia from Black Girls CODE. I'm 
Debbie from Goldieblox and we've partnered  
00:06 - together to bring you a breakthrough 
new program called CODE Along. CODE  
00:10 - Along is a series of video-based coding tutorials 
that break down how to code the coolest projects  
00:17 - and along the way some very special guests hop 
in to share how they use the same coding skills  
00:23 - to make a living and create amazing things. The 
best part all of this content is available for  
00:30 - free every week on YouTube and is tailor made 
for Gen Z and meets young people where they're  
00:36 - at. And where is that? On social media. After 
all both Black Girls CODE and Goldieblox have  
00:43 - been working with youth for over a decade. We're 
old pros at reaching the youth. No one can make  
00:49 - more entertaining content than us no one we're 
practically influencers ourselves. [Music] Why are  
01:02 - we doing this? We want to teach girls especially 
girls of color that they can develop the skills  
01:08 - to be the next tech leaders and we understand that 
many girls don't have access to a computer science  
01:13 - education in their K-12 classrooms and while lots 
of online coding resources do exist they tend to  
01:21 - be dry boring and let's face it feature brogrammer 
instructors that make girls like us feel excluded.  
01:28 - So we're flipping the script because everyone 
should feel like they belong in tech and that  
01:33 - starts with better representation and computer 
science curriculum so more girls can get excited  
01:39 - about building the skills that can change the 
future. CODE Along has received amazing tractions  
01:46 - so far winning Google.org's $1Million Impact 
Challenge for women and girls and receiving  
01:51 - incredible support from organizations like 
Microsoft and Infosys Foundation USA. But we're  
01:57 - just getting started -- so come join us! We're 
looking for more partners who share our passion  
02:02 - for preparing the next generation of tech leaders 
so if you're interested in supporting the next  
02:07 - CODE Along series visit us here to learn more, 
[Music] Let's go.. I'm just gonna punch it out.
02:22 - [Music]

Cleaned transcript:

Hello I am Sofia from Black Girls CODE. I'm Debbie from Goldieblox and we've partnered together to bring you a breakthrough new program called CODE Along. CODE Along is a series of videobased coding tutorials that break down how to code the coolest projects and along the way some very special guests hop in to share how they use the same coding skills to make a living and create amazing things. The best part all of this content is available for free every week on YouTube and is tailor made for Gen Z and meets young people where they're at. And where is that? On social media. After all both Black Girls CODE and Goldieblox have been working with youth for over a decade. We're old pros at reaching the youth. No one can make more entertaining content than us no one we're practically influencers ourselves. Why are we doing this? We want to teach girls especially girls of color that they can develop the skills to be the next tech leaders and we understand that many girls don't have access to a computer science education in their K12 classrooms and while lots of online coding resources do exist they tend to be dry boring and let's face it feature brogrammer instructors that make girls like us feel excluded. So we're flipping the script because everyone should feel like they belong in tech and that starts with better representation and computer science curriculum so more girls can get excited about building the skills that can change the future. CODE Along has received amazing tractions so far winning Google.org's $1Million Impact Challenge for women and girls and receiving incredible support from organizations like Microsoft and Infosys Foundation USA. But we're just getting started so come join us! We're looking for more partners who share our passion for preparing the next generation of tech leaders so if you're interested in supporting the next CODE Along series visit us here to learn more, Let's go.. I'm just gonna punch it out.
