[Voiceover] Here we have a simple page, just a picture and a heading. My goal is to make this page fancy by starting with the image and the text as hidden and then animating them in, like a slideshow. Let me start with hiding them using jQuery. So we're going to find the picture and then call jQuery's 'hide' method on it. Tada! It's gone. And then we will find the text and call 'hide' on it. Gone! We got a white page. So now, let's show them. So, show the picture first. It's back. And then we'll show the text next, and it's back. So, we're back to what we started with basically. And what happens here is that we hid them and showed them so quickly that it just looks like they were there all along. What we actually want is to show them slowly by animating them. jQuery gives us lots of ways to animate, thankfully. One way is to pass a number as the first parameter of the 'show' method. That number tells jQuery how slowly to animate the element being shown. There we go, and it animates it in the topleft getting bigger. That's cool. What if we want it to slide down from the top? We can replace 'show' with 'slideDown'. There we go. Now, let's animate the text. I'll call 'slideDown' again and I'm going to make the duration a little longer to make sure we can really see it. There, nice and slow. Okay. This is pretty fancy already, but let's go one step further. What if we only wanted to fade in this text after we knew that the image was fully shown? Basically, instead of starting these animations at the same time, we want the text animation to start only after the image animation has ended. For that, we can pass a 'callback function' as the second parameter of the 'slideDown' function. jQuery will call that callback when the animation is complete, which is just what we want. Let's try it out. There we go. Now let's go ahead and change this animation to a new method, 'fadeIn'. And we don't even have to specify a duration because there's a default duration for all these animations. There. Very nice. So can you imagine how you might use this to make a slideshow? You actually get to try that out in a project pretty soon.