[Voiceover] Okay, so you might be debating right now whether to use set interval or request animation frame for what you want to animate, but I'm going to go ahead and throw one more option in the mix. You see, in Chrome, Firefox, and IE 10 plus, there's actually a way in CSS to make animations without writing any JavaScript at all. Let's comment out the code we just wrote and try it for the oh noes animation. I'll just put a big multi line comment around all of that. So we start by adding a style tag to the page, and then adding something that looks like a CSS rule, but is actually our animation definition. So we write keyframes and then a name for animation, getbigger, and then curly brackets. To do a simple animation that goes from one state to another state, we'll define from and to states. Inside from, we'll write what the starting CSS property should be. Remember how we set it to 50px at the beginning. Inside to, we'll write what the end properties should be. Here maybe it was 300px is what we ended at. Remember? Now that we've defined an animation, we need to tell the browser what element should actually use this animation. So actually we'll add a normal CSS rule for ohnoes. Inside here, we specify the animation name, and that's getbigger, and then the animation duration, three seconds. Depending on what browser you're in, some of you right now might be thinking, whoa, sweet, it's working! In other browsers though, like Safari or Chrome, it's probably not working. That's because of something called vendor prefixes. Sometimes a browser decides to support a fancy new feature, but they put a vendor prefix on that feature to indicate that it might change later. This is just their browser's attempt at the feature. To make this work in Chrome, if it's not already, we have to replicate everything we just did and stick webkit in front. So we need to replicate this part and put webkit here. Then here we'll replicate this and put webkit, webkit. Whoa, sweet! Now it's getting bigger for every browser. Hopefully by the time you watch this talk through those vendor prefixes won't be necessary, but it's good to know that they exist because you might need to use them for some other feature one day. There's also one more way in CSS to make animations, and that's with the transition property. It tells the browser how to transition smoothly from one property to the next. Let's say that we want the font size of the time left to get bigger when you mouse over it. We could do all that in JavaScript by assigning an event list in there for the mouse over event, then using the request animation frame to increase the font size property each time, but we can also do that entirely in CSS. Let's think. How would we normally change the font size to be bigger when hovering in CSS? We can do that with a hover rule. We say #countdownhover, and then fontsize 150px. Okay, and now we just need to tell the browser to transition the font size property, how much time to transition it over, and what timing function to use. So we say transition fontsize one second linear. Now you should pause the talk through and try hovering over the text to see what happens. If you're in Chrome, Firefox, or IE 10 plus, then it should get bigger smoothly. You don't need any vendor prefixes for this technique. There's a whole lot that you can do with CSS animations and transitions, and browsers are pretty good at rendering them quickly. So I encourage you to explore both of them a lot more.