[Voiceover] Let's animate Winston using the shortcuts that you just learned. Here we've got Winston with his eyes, and we've got this eyesize variable. So if we wanted to make Winston's eyes get bigger, we could just say, "Eye size plus equals one." Adding one pixel to the size of the eyes each time. Whoa, look at it, it's bugging out! So we start, whoa, bug out, bug out, bug out! Now that's pretty cool, and, it turns out, in programming, we actually add one to variables a lot. Maybe while animating, but also you'll see there's a lot of other reasons why we add one to variables later. Programmers got bored of writing, "Plus equals one" all the time, because programmers get bored of silly things. So they came up with a shorter way of writing it. Instead of "Eye size plus equals one," we could just write, "Eye size plus plus." You see? It will do exactly the same thing. It's just a shorter way of doing it. Not only do we use this for programming, now most programmers just use it in everyday speech. Because we're all familiar with this plus plus, and it's an easy way of saying that you're making something a little bigger. If we went to Winston's birthday party we might say, "Happy birthday, Winston, Winston plus plus." Because Winston just got a year older. If we just learned a new fact, we might be like, "Oh, go us. Intelligence plus plus," and that's pretty fun. So when should you use plus plus versus plus equal? I think, actually, for animation it's cool to use plus equal because then you can use a number scrubber and you can be like, "Whoa, let's make it "Whoa, whoa, that was awesome!" Let's make it really crazy, really different. Whoa! (laughs) See how fun that is? Depending on what you're doing it might be convenient just to say, "Plus plus." You'll see later that there's lots of other times when you might want to add one to variables. Not just for animation, where that plus plus operator can become even more useful. Just keep that in mind, where you see that plus plus and try using it in your everyday speech.