[Voiceover] I'd like to introduce you to my good friend, Winston. He's a bit sad today, because he's been drawn in black and white, and he thinks that's boring. Winston is black and white because black is a default color for outlines, and white is a default color for filling in shapes. We're going to change those colors with code. First, let's start with coloring in the background. I can do that by typing 'background' up here, and it autocompletes the command for me, and my background is red. All the coloring commands are autocompleted on Khan Academy, because these three parameters are hard to figure out yourself. You see, we need some way to describe a color to a computer, because computers don't see colors the way that humans do. Here, we're using something called RGB colors. The first parameter is how red the color is. The second is how green it is. And the third is how blue it is. In this one, we're using 255 for red, which is the most red it can be, and zero for green and blue, which are the lowest they can be. And that is why our background looks red. I wanna make this a light blue instead, though. I could try to figure out exactly how much each number should be. Or I could take a much easier approach. I can just click on the numbers, and use the color picker that pops up, and then drag around until I find a color I like. Perfect. Now, it's important to understand what this background function is really doing. It's just drawing a big colored square over the entire canvas. If I take this out, and I move it to the end here, then it draws that square over everything, and it looks like they've disappeared. That's why it's really important that the 'background' function is up at the top of our program. Now, let's color his face. Remember that the default color of our shapes is white. To change that, we need to use the 'fill' command. I'll type it right here. And once again, it defaults to red. Notice, it didn't just make his face red. It also made every other shape red. That's because the 'fill' function basically means use this fill color for every shape that comes after this command. Well, I'm going to start by changing this to yellow. And now, in order to make the eyes and the mouth different colors, I'll just use 'fill' again. So to do his eyes, I'm going to type 'fill' before the two ellipses for his eyes. Ooh. He looks a little bit like a demon right now. So we're going to change that to black. Okay. Now to do his mouth, I'll type 'fill' before the ellipse for his mouth. And I'll keep it as red, because, hey, it's a mouth. Okay. Now that it looks like a bright and sunny day, Winston might want to go running. Let's give him a headband to soak up all the sweat. I'll use the 'line' function to draw a line across his forehead. And I already know some good coordinates for that. Nice. I want this headband to be a lot thicker, because he's going to sweat a lot. For that, I'll use a new command, 'strokeWeight.' And I need a pass at a number to say how thick we want this line to be. Let's try 20. It's pretty good, but I'm just gonna make it a little bigger. Okay. Good. Of course, I want this headband to be more colorful. Cuz you know, black, not so great. To color the headband, I have to use another new command, 'stroke.' And let me change that to that color. That looks good. The 'stroke' command is a way that we color the outlines of shapes and the way that we set the colors for lines. That's different from 'fill,' while fills the inside of a shape with color. A line doesn't really have an inside. So 'fill' will never affect a line. We also have a function that we can use to turn off outlines entirely. I'll type that up here, 'noStroke.' Notice we now have no outlines around our face, our eyes, and our mouth. We can still see our headband, because we have got that 'stroke' command right before it. And 'stroke' basically turns 'noStroke' off once the program sees it. Okay. So that's what you need to know color your drawings. The important thing is to make sure that you pay attention to the order of your commands. So you should always set the color before you draw the shapes that you want to be colored with that color. Now, go make the world a more colorful place.