[Voiceover] Now that you know about While loops, let's talk about another kind of loop, For loops. Here's a For loop I made to place the most delicious kind of pizza, pineapple pizza. You might think, "I liked While loops "why should I care about this kind of loop?" Soon you'll see that a For loop is a way to write simple kinds of While loops, in a bit of a shorter way. Before we inspect this For loop let's go ahead and look at a While loop, which will be a little bit more familiar, and then we'll get back to this For loop in a moment. Just like you saw in Intro to While Loops we start out with this variable y and we write a message using that location y. We say that we want to keep going as long as y is less than 300, and change y by 40 each time. Just to reinforce each of these, which again should be pretty much review, we can say that "Pineapple pizza is the best!" is a really important message so we probably want to be writing it more. We probably should start higher, so we change that. Should probably go on for longer so we make that bigger. And it should probably be closer spaced together don't you think? That's a little bit better. Now let's see how we can change this While loop into a For loop. I'm going to comment out this While loop just so you can see that a For loop really is doing what I'm saying it's going to do. We'll say that when we create a For loop, we'll just create some space for us to fill in later. Something really important, kind of different for a For loop, is that it's not just one thing that goes in here, it's actually three things. You tell the computer that by putting these semicolons to separate the three parts. We'll have one part here, one part here, one part here, and then the inside of the loop just like we had before. What goes in each of these parts? You can think of it, as we say "For" we can say that we're going to have some sort of start or initialization. Then we'll have the semicolon. Then we're going to have some sort of instructions of how long to repeat, and then we're going to have some sort of change happening. How does that correspond with this While loop? Really concretely we can say that the start sets up this variable y here, so let's copy and paste that over onto this first part of the For loop. And similarly it appears first so it's first. We can say that this middle part is telling us how long we should keep going for. That goes in the middle. Then we say that the change happens at the end here, so we'll put that at the end of the For loop. These three parts always have to occur in this order. In your For loop you always have to start out by saying, "This is "where this variable should start out as." Here it's 27. Then you need to say how long you want to keep going for. Repeat as long as it's less than 354. Then you need to put how you're going to be changing things. Here we're going to be changing by increasing y by 24. Then last you just have to do whatever you wanted to do inside the For loop. We'll go ahead and write that text there. There we have it. Pineapple pizza is the best! And everybody will know. Let's think a little bit more closely about what's happening with this For loop. If we wanted to change where it started we'd just change the start here. If we wanted to change where it ended we would change this end point. If we wanted to change the spacing we would just change the increment number. Then we can also change, just like with the While loop, what value we have for x when we write our text. Great! One thing that can be confusing about a For loop is to remember what these semicolons do. You just need to remember that they always have to be there to separate the three parts. If we don't have them there then we're going to get some weird error messages about our For loop, so whenever we see that just double check that you have them. You also make it over enthusiastic and add an extra one at the end. If you just remember that semicolons are only there to separate the three parts, then we can say this last semicolon isn't separating anything. It's just kind of trailing on there. We can get rid of it because we don't need it. I know you're probably getting a little bit tired of seeing these For loops getting converted into While loops and back. Let's just do it one more time just so you can see that a For loop really is just another way to write a simple kind of a While loop, and you'll be really really confident and understanding how to go from a For loop back into a While loop. Because you can do that actually with any kind of For loop, not just this one. First thing that we do is think about where to put this first value that we have inside of our For loop. Since it's just initializing this variable remember it has to go outside, not inside the While loop. And it should go before as well because we need to be using it during our While loop. Then you think about, "Where should this condition go?" That's pretty easy. You probably remember that usually the stopping condition, or the repeat until condition, usually go inside here. We're going to say that while y is less then 313 we'll just keep going. Finally, the change. We always put the change at the end of the While loop in the loops that we've seen. We should go and do that here. We just need to move this text call inside and there we have it. We can just comment out this For loop and see that we made the exact same thing happen once more. Hopefully by now you can see that this new For loop isn't actually necessary. We can go through our entire programming lives writing loops that look like this, but it is a little bit impressive how much more concise this For loop is, and how it makes it a little bit more clear once you're used to it. What's going on with how we're starting a variable. We're saying how long to keep going, and then we're changing that variable here. If you really hate For loops you don't have to use them ever, but you should be used to seeing them. If they're confusing just remember that you can convert them right back into a While loop like this. If you're feeling adventurous try using a For loop in your new program, or going back to some of your old, simple While loops and converting them into For loops if appropriate. As a final note you cannot always convert a While loop into a For loop, only when they're in a really simple form like this where it's really clear what variable you're starting out, how long it's going for, and how it's changing.