You already learned about using variables to store numbers or strings. Now we're going to learn about something called arrays, which let us store multiple items in just one variable. As you'll see, arrays let us do all kinds of useful things. Ok, let's review variables. Alright? So we have var myFriend = "Sophia". So a variable is just a way of storing a value like Sofia and giving it a label so our program has an easy way to refer to it later. We can think of it like a drawer with a myFriend label on the outside and Sofia on the inside. So whenever we look inside it, we find Sofia. Now sometimes we want to hold multiple values in a single variable. And we can't just do it like this because we'll get a syntax error, and our program will freak out and all that stuff. So we have a specific way that we do that, and that's using arrays. So we could say myFriends = , and then we have to do a square bracket, and then inside that's where we can put all the values. So you say Sofia, and we have John, and we have Leif. Alright, so those are my three friends. Maybe in order of how much I like them, but don't tell them that. OK. So now our variable holds three values, not just one. And we can imagine it's like a chest of drawers, and we put this label, myFriends, on the whole chest. And we just open the right drawer to find the value we're looking for. And you imagine with a chest of drawers, if you want to know what's inside the first drawer, you would just open it up and look inside. So how do we do that with an array? Well we can just type the name of the array, and then the brackets again, and then the number of whatever it is in the array. So maybe it would be 1. OK? So let's actually try this out by using the text command and showing Sofia on the canvas. So we say myFriends[1], and then we put it here, and then let's put a little fill. Oh, OK, so we see John. Why do we see John? We said 1 for the element index, right? The 1 right here. Well that's because arrays start at 0, not 1, and it will definitely seem weird at first, but you'll get used to it. So if we put 0, then we see Sofia, alright? And then if we want to show the next element, then we use 1, alright? So, and then if we want to do the final element, the third element, then we use 2. So you just think to yourself, "Ok, which one do I want to retrieve?" Let's spread these out. And where is it located, and you just subtract one. So the first one is 0, the second one is 1, the third one is 2, et cetera, et cetera. What happens if I forgot, and I try to access Leif this way? Well then we say myFriends[3], and we'll just get nothing. That's because there's nothing there, right? When it says 3, it looks for the fourth element, and there'e no fourth element. So there's just nothing. And that's something that can happen a lot when you're using arrays. So just look out for that. And the same thing if I tried to access 100 because I don't have one hundred friends. I only have three... So then we get nothing, alright? So let's get rid of those. Now let's say we want to keep track of how many friends we have because I'm really proud that I have three friends, and I want to let everybody know. So I'm going to go and declare this to the world. So I have numFriends + friends. Woo, alright. OK, so I have three friends. Yay! Wow, that's not very many. OK, so maybe Winston feels bad for me and says he'll be my friend. And he says I can add him to the array. And I was like, "OK, cool. Thanks, Winston." So I add Winston. Oh, but it still says I have three friends. Right, because I have to go and update this variable here. That means every time that I add something to this array, I have to update this variable, and that can get really annoying. Especially if all of you guys watching this decide you'll be my friend, and then I'm updating this thousands of times and having to update this every time. So here's the thing. We so often want to know how long our array is that there's a special way to do that. So the array will keep track of how long it is using the property called length. And to use it, we just say myFriends.length, and then we'll get back the length. See? Now it says 4, and I can delete this variable. I don't need it any more. And this property will update whenever we add. So maybe OhNoes Guy says he'll be my friend, and I'm like, "OK, you're kind of mean, but OK. You can be my friend." And we can keep adding, and it will keep updating. So that's really cool because, you know, it's a lot less work to keep track of how long our array is. Alright, so pretty much whenever you want to store a list of values like this, we'll use an array. So keep watching to find out all the really cool things that we can use them for.