Hello, I'm Pamela, and I created the AP Computer Science Principles course on Khan Academy. Our AP CSP content is broken up into five units, computers, the internet, programming, algorithms, and data analysis. Each unit is full of exercise questions, with over 600 questions total. I've also written instructional articles for each topic and embedded the fantastic videos from code.org. The articles are illustrated with diagrams demonstrating the concepts to help visual learners, like myself. They often include inline questions to help students check their understanding before they get to the exercise. The exercise questions are inspired by the questions on the AP CSP practice exams. And the majority are multiple choice. The exercise questions in the programming unit are all written in the pseudocode of the AP CSP exam. CSP students program in a variety of languages in the classroom. So our questions give students an opportunity to translate their programming skills into the exam pseudocode. Khan Academy believes in masterybased learning. We give students the option to practice a skill multiple times to demonstrate their mastery and help them to discover their weak points. Each exercise set has 12 practice questions. And students attempt four questions at a time. If they struggle on a question the first time, we encourage them to review the article or the hints. After they complete the set of four, they'll see how they did. They can then practice again, especially if they missed a question the first time. They'll then see another set of questions similar to the first four, including one similar to the one they missed. Each unit has quizzes and a unit test. Students can attempt them when they feel comfortable with the material covered. And the system will identify any topics where they need to practice more. Khan Academy also provides a great set of teacher tools for those of you who want to assign content and track progress. To get started using the tools, create a class on Khan Academy, choose AP CSP as the course for the class, and then add your students. You can then preview all the content for the course, including the AP CSP standards that are mapped to each item. You can even preview each exercise to see what the questions look like. You can assign articles, videos, exercises, or entire lessons and units. Then you can monitor your students' progress in the Assignments, Progress, and Activity tabs. So that was a quick tour of our AP CSP content. Thank you for teaching AP CSP and helping to bring more people into the world of computer science.