[Voiceover] Welcome back. Now we did a bit of DOM manipulation in the last tutorial, where we just changed the inner text of elements. There is a lot more that you can change using jQuery, however. Really, really you can change anything. So, I'm going to show you some more ways to change here. Starting with this webpage about cats. Cats are great, cats are adorable. I love cats. But, I have a recurring dream where crocodiles eat me and my cats and take over the world. So let's use jQuery to play out that nightmare on this webpage. All right, so let's go down to the JavaScript and start by changing all of the headings on the page, like we did before. So we'll say "crocodile attack!". All right. Now let's write some HTML in all of the paragraph tags. Say "the crocodiles are coming". "Oh noess". Ooh. Oh no. So it's showing the '' tags to me, the user, but I want it to render those like '' tags. And the reason it's doing that is because I used the 'text method', which just interprets everything as text. So if we want to 'pass' an HTML tags, we have to use the HTML method. There we go. Now we get that "oh noess" across. All right. Now, we can make the page look a bit more crocodillian, if we change the paragraph text color to green. And the way we can do that, selecting all those paragraphs again and then calling the 'css method'. And the 'css method' expects two parameters. The first 1 will be the 'css property name', color. And the next 1 will be the 'property value', green. There we go. We could also be a bit fancier and instead of changing just one 'css property', we could add a whole 'class name'. So let's try that for our headings. So, "h2". ".addClass" and we 'pass' it a 'class name', which I'll just make up. Call it "crocodile". All right so nothing has happened and that's because I don't have a 'css rule' for crocodile class, yet. But, I can easily go up and add it. So '' ".crocodile" and "color green" and then while I'm up here let's make a new font. Fantasy. Yeah look at that. That is looking good. All right. So generally it's better to add a 'class' than change an individual property, because then you can keep adding lots and lots of properties up here, keep all your styles in 1 place, and not clutter up your JavaScript with adding all sorts of 'css properties'. But, there might be times when, for whatever reason, you can't add a 'class name', and in that case you can use that 'css method'. Okay, so our page is getting there. Let's see what else we have. We have links on the page. Those links go off to webpages about cats. Of course we want those to go off to a wepage about crocodiles instead. So let's select all of the links and this time we're going to use ".attr", which stands for attribute. And with this method we need to 'pass' it two parameters. The first is the name of the attribute we're going to change. So we're going to change the "href". And the second, is the 'value'. So for that I'm going to take this URL and then type "crocodile" and that should point to a page about crocodiles. It's always good to find out more information about the species that is attacking you. All right. And there's one more thing on the page. You can probably see what I'm talking about, There is a cat on my page, there's two cats on my page. The images. So let's go and select those images, and use ".attr" again to change the "src", the source of the images. And I will set it equal to...this URL, plus "crocodiles.png" and there we go. The crocodiles that are attacking us. They've taken over the entire page. It's frightening isn't it? (laughing) Well don't worry you can also use jQuery to change your page into happy things, like unicorns and ponies, and you'll get to try that out in the next challenge.