[Voiceover] So far, we've been using jQuery to modify the existing elements in our page, like we did with all of these code here. However, sometimes we wanna use jQuery to create entirely new DOM elements and that's pretty easy to do as well. Let's say that we want to make a new paragraph on this page. First, I'm going to declare a variable to store it, so 'newP'. Next, I'm going to create it using the jQuery function, so type '$()'. Now, instead of passing the CSS selector, I'm going to pass in a string of HTML, the start tag for the element that I want to create. I don't have to do the end tag. I can, if I want, but I don't have to. As long as I pass in the start tag, jQuery will know that I want it to create a paragraph for me. Okay. So, I've now successfully made a jQuery collection with a paragraph inside of it, and I'm storing that inside this variable. I probably want this paragraph to actually say something. So, I'll use the 'text' method. Let's see. "The crocodiles "have eaten this ENTIRE PAGE!" Okay, great. I could also modify it in other ways, like let's add a class name, the 'crocodile' class. It's got some good styles on it. Great. All right. But where is my paragraph? I don't see it on the page anywhere. Well, it's floating off in JavaScript memory space and it's nowhere to be found on my page because I haven't told jQuery where to put it. So the final step after we create the element and we modify it, is to attach it somewhere on our page using jQuery methods, like 'append' or 'prepend' or 'after'. So, I want this paragraph to be at the very end of the page. Just here or below there. So that means I'm going to append it to the '' tag and that will make it the very last tag in the 'body.' So we can do that by selecting the 'body' and then saying 'append' and passing in 'newP'. There we go. Yay! All right. So, that's creating element and the steps to remember are that you create the element, you modify it however you want to, and then very important step is you figure out where on the page you want that new element to be. Do not forget this step or you're gonna spend a long time poking around your page, trying to find an element that doesn't exist.