At this point, you might realize that you've been defining a particular function every time you wanted to animate your program, the "draw" function. To remind you, here is our animated car program. So remember we have "var x = 11" which is the initial position of the car and "var draw" strands, all of our drawing code and then we change "x" by +3 each time and then we can just restart and go Wooo! Zoomy Zoomy Zoomy! Now that you have learned how to make your own functions, you may be wondering "What about this draw function?" "Is it a custom function? Why is it always named draw?" Well, those are very good questions. You see, in our environment here on Khan Academy, there are a few special global functions, which I call Magic Functions but that's just my own name for them. Basically when we run your program we look to see if you defined functions with certain names, like "draw", and, if you have, then we call them at particular times. For example, when you define the "draw" function in your code, then we'll find that function and we'll look at the code inside of it and we'll call that code over and over and over as fast as we can. If you don't define a draw function, then we won't call anything because there's nothing there. That means if we rename this function to "drow" ok, that didn't work. Or to "drawCar" ok, that didn't work. So if we rename the function the program no longer finds it because it's not called draw anymore. So it doesn't run that code over and over so we end up with nothing. So this means that you shouldn't name your own custom functions "draw" unless you want them to be treated specially and called over and over. Now "draw" is not the only magic function available. There's also a bunch of functions for reacting to mouse interactions and key presses. Let's show an example of another animation program. Let's say if we wanted to draw a colored ball whenever the user is moving their mouse. We have "draw" and then "fill" and then "ellipse" at "(mouseX, mouseY, 10, 10)". Ok, let's try this Ok cool! We have this really cool colored ball thing going on. So this function, this code inside this "draw" function, will get called over and over because we've put it inside a function named "draw". So it will get called even if the user isn't moving their mouse. It's getting called right now even though my mouse is not moving. As it turns out, there is a better way to do this, that is more efficient. What we can do is change this "draw" function to "mouseMoved". Our environment always checks programs to see if they have defined a "mouseMoved" function. And if so, they will call it whenever the user moves their mouse. You can see once again, it still works. But, they won't call this if they're not moving their mouse. As soon as I stop moving my mouse, it's not called anymore. Remember before when we had "draw," that code was getting called over and over and over, even when the mouse wasn't changing. But now that we are using "mouseMoved," we are only calling the code when we need to, when the mouse actually changes. Our program is much more efficient. Generally, if you only want to change your program output when the user moves a mouse, then it is better to have it inside that "mouseMoved" function instead of inside "draw". There are a bunch more magic functions like "mouseMoved". There is "mousePressed" and "mouseReleased" and "keyPressed" and you can read all about it in the documentation. The key thing to remember is this; If you want to use the magic function, spell it correctly. If you don't, make sure you give your own custom functions a new name.