So we've been doing a lot of drawing so far. But we haven't talked about something as simple as say, writing your name; that's what this lesson is about, text. So why might you want to use text? Well maybe we want to show the score in a game or have characters talk, or just to make our name grow and shrink and change colors. So let's go ahead and try and say "hello." Say "text(hello)" and we have this weird error message that pops up, saying that "hello is not defined," what does that mean? Well, the problem is that the program thinks that "hello" is a variable, and it kind of makes sense from the program's perspective because maybe "hello" could be a variable, how would it know? So how do we tell our program that it's actually text? So that's easy, we just have to remember to put these quotations marks around it. And that says that no, this is not a variable, and in fact this is text or we want you to display it as text, and you can remember this by thinking of a book, where all the characters talk, and there are quotes around what they are saying. And similarly, when you want the program to say something, that text has to have these qutoes around it. And this is actually really important and easy to mess up. So i'm just going to say it again, anytime you want to use text in your program you always have to use these quotation marks around it. Otherwise you're going to get some really weird error messages. And remember, if you do see those weird error messages, just be sure to double check that you are remembering to use quotes. Great! so now we're using quotation marks, and we don't get an error anymore. But you might have noticed that nothing is happening, and it's still blank, but what is kind of strange is if we set a "background," something, say just a red, then we see that it is actually there. It's just in white, so the problem is if we think about it, that we were writing white text, onto a white background, and that's why we couldn't see it. So that seems a little bit silly, why were you writing white text onto white background? Well, we could just change it, because we learned how to set the fill of something. And just like we can set the fill of a rectangle or a line, we can set the fill of text to anything just like before, and then there it is! It shows up without needing the background, so let's look a little bit more to how this text thing is working. The first part, is obvious enough, it's just whatever text we want to write. The next part, if we change it, we can see that it's basically just how far over, and the next one is just how far up and down. That probably looks really familiar from when we were just drawing rectangles. One thing that's a little bit tricky is that text has these two coordinates specify the lower left part, so this corner of the text. While with rectangles it's the upper left, this corner. And that can seem like it was just designed to confuse you, but it's just something you kind of have to remember. And we can even experiment and see it for ourselves, by we can set this to say, "height," and we can see that, yeah, it is setting the height to be this lower left coordinate. Or we can set it to zero, and you think what should we expect then? And we don't see it at all, but if we slowly start increasing this, we can see that, yeah it is kind of just like peeking out there. Because again, that lower left coordinate is what we're specifying, not the upper left. Okay, so enough of analyzing this text thing, let's go ahead and make it better. For example, let's start to make it bigger, we can do that with "textSize" which just tells the program how big to draw the text. And we can make it "30," which is pretty big, we can make it even bigger, or we can make it really, really, really, really small. Whatever we want, so let's go ahead and draw your name and maybe a little message about yourself underneath. Since I don't know your name, I'm just going to draw my name. You can switch it to yours in a moment. So using what we just learned, we can say "text("Sophia")" and there my name is. And then maybe want to put a little message underneath, like, "I like puppies and guitars and coding." So that's great, except that we obviously need to change the positions so they don't overlap. And oh no, no, that's kind of a long string of text, so let's change it to be a smaller text size. And there we go, that's pretty good. Except, I don't know, it's kind of boring having them both be blue, so let's just change the "fill," and let's make it maybe a nice, hmm I don't know, maybe a nice, like, purple. Alright, and there you go, that's all there is to drawing text and changing colors and changing size.