[Voiceover] Now I'll show you one more way to use CSS styles in your page, using something called 'external stylesheets.' Here, I've go this webpage about Hopper And it has a nice header and footer, makes it green and light green. Now what if I wanted to make another page about Hopper with the same header and footer styles? Like if I wanted an entire multi page website about Hopper which had those headers and footers on every page but different content in the middle of the page. Well, one way I could do that is by copying and pasting these CSS rules into every one of the pages that I make. But then when I want to change something about the header or footer, I'd have to change it in every page, like if I decided the color should be slightly darker, I'd have to make that change for every page I have. I'd be better if I could just change it in one place. That is the point of an 'external stylesheet.' It's a file of CSS rules that we can include on multiple pages. So, let me show you how to do this, do you see these top three rules here? I've actually already gone ahead and moved them into a separate file which I'm storing online on GitHub, that means I should be able to replace these with an 'external stylesheet.' I'm just going to comment them out, we loose the styles for now, but we're going to bring them back. Right, to include the stylesheet, I'm going to use the '' tag, which confusingly is not used for hyperlinks, it's used for bringing in files. Now I add the attribute 'rel' set up '="stylesheet"' next the attribute 'type' set up '=text/css' and finally I need to tell the browser where this CSS stylesheet is, so add 'href=' and paste in the URL. Tada, all right, so I got my styles back by including this file, you are welcome to go and check out this file to see what it looks like, now that I've done this, I can paste this link tag into all of my pages about Hopper and it will always reference the same CSS. So on Khan Academy we don't make it particularly easy to use external stylesheets in the webpages here, because we don't have support for you to host stylesheets on our servers, but once you start developing webpages outside of Khan Academy in a full featured editor, you probably want to start using external stylesheets as soon as you have multiple pages in your website. If you ever see yourself writing the exact same CSS rule in two places, two pages on your website then remember to ask yourself, "mmm, should this be "in an external stylesheet instead?"