point() is a function that takes in an x coordinate and a y coordinate and draws a point on the screen. So right now it's drawing a point that's only one pixel big, which you might be able to see if you squint. If you want to make the point bigger, you can call this function strokeWeight() and pass it a size, let's say 10. Aha! That's better. So now let's talk about some math expressions. A math expression is any string of numbers and symbols that evaluates to some other number. For example, 1 + 1 is a math expression that evaluates to 2. A more complicated expression might be 4 + 3 * 8 / (2 + 2), which evaluates to let's see, two... never mind what it evaluates to. The point is, while you're coding, any place where you would normally use a number, you can actually substitute one of these math expressions. So for example, this point() function here accepts two numbers as parameters. Instead of 100, I could just as well say "50 + 50," or maybe "25 * 4," and the computer would evaluate those expressions for us before drawing the point at that position. The basic order of operations you learned about in school applies to coding as well. Remember PEMDAS? Well, maybe you don't, but this is the acronym I learned in school and it stands for Parentheses, Exponent, Multiplication, Division, Addition, Subtraction. And there's actually no symbol for exponent in this language, so in our case, it's just PMDAS. This means that everything inside parentheses are evaluated first, and then multiplication and division are evaluated next from left to right, and finally we do addition and subtraction, also from left to right. So let's just go through a couple more examples and see what kind of things we can do. Let's draw a rectangle, maybe at 100 * (4 2), and then, y coordinate give it (300 + 50) / 7 + 80, and maybe a width of 100 + 50, and then a height of 60 * 3, how about that? Whew! That is a fat rectangle. Maybe I wanna set the strokeWeight() to something smaller like 10 7, yeah? I can also draw an ellipse() at 130 + 50 and 100 + 60, maybe 40 * 3, and let's do 200 17, yeah? Oh, and would you look at that! Kinda looks like... an elephant! Well that's it, now you know about math expressions.