Okay, look, let's take a step back for a second and let me introduce myself a little more properly. My name is (this is absurd but I'm writing my name over here on the board but) my name is [enunciating] Daniel Sheef Mon pronounced 'Shiffman' but I don't know, you can say Sheef Mon if you want and I work at a place called ITP which you can find out more about at ITP.nyu.edu It's a twoyear graduate program and I teach a lot of programming courses here, one of which in particular is a course called 'Introduction to Computational Media' in which the students learn most them for the very first time how to program the computer and we use for that course something else that I participate in developing, called, 'Processing,' and you can find out more about Processing at Processing.org so this is who I am the kind of context, at least, of what I'm doing I imagine I'm making these videos just to try them, to learn more about teaching to learn more about teaching in this strange new context as well as to supplement the course that I'm teaching here but it is my hope that all the things will kind of feed into each other in a nice way and that there will be some population, however small, whether it's three people three hundred three thousand three billion that are interested in this content and that this stuff that I'm going to talk about and demonstrate over many many, many, many, many videos on will be interesting to help you with [humorously] I don't know I'm really trying too hard to justify this, but I'm just doing it, you can turn it off at anytime you like. Okay now, who are you? I don't know. I would be interested in hearing from you. But let me say a few things this video series is for the complete and total beginner. You don't need to know anything. That's not entirely true. You do need to access to a computer you probably already do if you're watching this video you need to know some basic stuff how to download a piece of software, how to install it, yeah, how to type that kind of stuff but really that's it. I will assume no knowledge whatsoever about anything that has to do with programming. we're going to really, really slowly in great detail buildup stuff from the beginning. So if you already know some stuff about programming, the nice thing about these video series is I'm trying to keep the videos to between 2 and 20 minutes. really I want them to be like 5 or 10 minute videos but you can just skip some You can jump ahead. If all you're interested in how to, like, parse a JSON feed and get it into your Processing sketch, that's probably going to be video, like, number 50 or 30 or 22 somewhere further ahead (it's not made yet, by the way. It doesn't exist) but you can jump ahead and do that. The other thing I should mention it I made some videos last year so as you're watching them if you suddenly think that I look much younger or have a strangely different length of beard, it's because some of the videos from last year are going to be kind of spliced in here although I may end up remaking them if they're outofdate or needing some extra touchup or that sort of thing. So that's who I am. That's who you are or maybe you are, and you can let me know if you are somebody different.