Hello, variables, p5.js, JavaScript, I'm just speaking in single works. OK, this is a video, where the topic that I want to look at is probably going to be a couple of videos, is variables. But we got to ease our way into it. Well, before we even talk about what a variable is, let's think about why. What's missing from the programs that you are writing? In the previous video, I showed you how to draw a static thing into the screen. It could be a rectangle, a circle, color it. And before you could do that, we had to add two things. Blocks of code, I'll call them. A block of code is something that begins with a open curly bracket and ends with a close curly bracket. A setup block and a Draw block. Each of these blocks, by the way, is a function. Functions are this fundamental primary element of just about how everything works in JavaScript. So it's going to be a key topic throughout all of the videos that I make. And a function is essentially a way of organizing a set up a block of code, a bunch of lines of instructions altogether. There's a bunch of Setup instructions and a bunch of Draw instructions. I said last week or a couple days ago, whenever I made the last video that Setup is a place where you put create canvas. Create canvas. And create canvas requires two arguments, with and height. And you get this nice rectangle on the screen. A canvas for you to draw to. And when it's time to draw to that canvas, you add some instructions in the Draw function like background. Background 0 we'll give you a black background. And then, perhaps, you might add something like ellipse. 50, 50, 75, 20, it's a weird looking ellipse, which would then look more like this. Anyway, something like this, right? So this is what we've got so far, there's a setup block and a Draw block. Both of those things are functions. There's a bit more to it than just this idea of like, oh, create canvas isn't set up and this stuff isn't drawn. There's a reason why we're putting some things and Setup in some things and Draw. And it has to do with the flow of a program hope I'm recording a flow of a program over time. If you've ever used any piece of software, you know there's an element of time there. You launch the software, you do some stuff, some more things happen, you do more stuff. It doesn't just, like, start, draw a picture, and end. So a p5 sketch a browser session so to speak it happens over time. And these functions are controlling that flow. How do they control that flow? Setup happens once at the beginning. When the program runs, the first thing that happens is Setup and it happens once. Which makes sense, you want to create a canvas more than once. At the beginning, you create the canvas once. Draw, however, does something kind of interesting. After Setup finishes, these instructions get executed and when it gets to the end, it goes right back to the beginning. Background ellipse, to the end, right back to the beginning, background ellipse, to the end, right back to the beginning. This is known as a loop, and it essentially happens forever. It happens forever until a user closes the window. There's obviously a lot more to this. You could stop and start it, you can have lots of other things happen. But this is our basic beginning flow of the program. Setup happens once, Draw loops over, and over, and over again. I wonder how many times I've talked about Setup and Draw in my life, probably like 250. But I enjoy it just as much this time as any other time, by gosh. OK, let's go over and prove this point, here. So here is a p5 sketch, and you can see that it is exactly the same format that I looked at the board. There is a Setup function at the top with create canvas. And there are a bunch of drawing things. This is a nice example that Lauren McCarthy prepared unknowingly for me. And if I run it, you can see I love these colors. I love the pink circle and I love the blue square. Now, it doesn't look like anything's happening over time, because it's just, like, a static picture. It's beautiful, but it doesn't move. And maybe that's, OK, maybe in life all we want to do is make static pictures. But, assuming you want to make things move, it's drawing the same thing over and over again. What do we need to do? We need to vary what happens every time Draw executes. Draw executes once, twice, third time, fourth time, fifth time, what if something different happens? What if the first time the circle appears up there, then the second time it appears down here, the third time it appears down here, you'll have the illusion of it moving down. Or even better yet what if you could just say every time through Draw, draw the circle where the mouse is? So I could do something like, ellipse where the mouse is, right? That should be fine, I'm sure that's going to work. I'm being facetious, I guess. But, now [INAUDIBLE] you can see that I have an area. So this is obviously like expected parentheses. This is obviously not correct syntax. P5, JavaScript, it's not going to I understand your just regular, old English language speak thing. However, this is such a common problem, that p5 has as a part of its library a variable. A variable called mouse x. I'm going to put mouse x in here. You can see that it's a nice purple color, right? Because the p5 editor recognized that as a built in keyword, a variable. And what this means is mouse x is a word that stands for something. 100 is a number that stands for the number 100, and can only ever be the number 100. But mouse x is actually referring to something stored in the computer's memory that changes based on how the user moves the mouse. So, if I run this program again, we can see mouse x is 100, maybe it's 200, maybe 300. So now, we can see that no matter what I do, Draw is happening over and over again. And it's always drawing the ellipse where the mouse is. I mean, if you haven't done this before, hopefully this is kind of interesting. OK, so there's a couple more things to this. There's another thing we could look at here, which is kind of amazing. Now, what happens, then, if I take some other things and put them in Setup like this background function? I'm going to put this in Setup. Remember, Setup happens just once, Draw loops over and over again. I haven't rerun it yet. This is when the background was in Draw, right? The background is always being filled, and then the ellipse is drawn. Background is still, the the ellipse is drawn. What happens if the background is drunk only once in Setup? You think about that for a second. I'm thinking about it. Now, I'm going to run this again. Look at this, every single ellipse from the history of moving every time I moved it is now visible. This is because we only drew that yellow background once, and everything is drawn sequentially. So this illusion of something moving around the screen, only exists if you erase the background each time through Draw, before you draw the next thing. So this is something you can play with, and in fact, this is a pretty quick path. If I get rid of this rectangle, and I say, like, no stroke, and I also add mouse y here, and I run this, now, you can see I've made a painting program. Which is pretty nice. Like, maybe I give it a little alpha, which is the fourth argument. Maybe I make that a little bit smaller, and I run it again. You can see, here's a little program that I can use to kind of paint something with my mouse. So this is actually a great stopping point for this video. I want to look in the next video at how you make your own variables. Oh, actually, no, I have one more thing. I've been trying to keep my videos at 10 minutes, there's a minute and a half. But in this painting program, there's one more thing that I want to show you, which I think is really, really key, OK? So let's go back to the board over here. And we have Setup, that is a function that runs once at the beginning. We have Draw, that's a function that happens over and over again. Let's add one more function. And I don't have a lot of room on the whiteboard, so I'm just going to erase Draw for a second, to put it here. And, so, pretend Draw is still there and it has a background, and an ellipse. And I'm going to add another function, and I'm going to call it mouse pressed. So I have now complicated the flow of the program even more, in an interesting way. Setup happens once and only once at the beginning. Draw loops over and over again. Draw's just, like, a crazy person like, I'm going to draw, I'm going to draw, I'm going to draw, I'm never nobody stop drying. You can't stop me from drawing, drawing, drawing. Mouse pressed is a very patient person. Quietly sitting inside just waiting and waiting. In fact, mouse pressed might never ever happen. Program could run and that code there will never occur. So this is what's known and this is also a key concept in JavaScript, there's can be so much more to this as an event. When the user clicks the mouse, the code here is executed. So Draw is just drawing, and drawing, and drawing, and drawing, and drawing. The user clicks the mouse, we take a break from Draw for a second, we run the code in mouse pressed, and then Draw loops. I don't know why I'm saying we, the computer is doing this. The browser is executing all these instructions. So now you have a bit more sophistication, here. You have Setup, you have Draw, and you can always interrupt Draw with mouse pressed. So let's go back to our program. I was like, do you have any questions? But there's no way for you to talk to me, and I want you to talk to me somehow, some way. So, now, over here, what I'm going to do to this program is I'm going to add a mouse pressed. And what should we put in mouse pressed? How about we take this background function and we duplicate it in mouse pressed. So you can see when the program first starts we make the canvas, we draw the background. Then, always, continuously, we just draw a circle wherever the mouse is, so let the user paint. And then what can the user do? Now, there's a new feature here. The user is moving the mouse, moving the mouse, moving the mouse, and the user might say who's me I might say, drawing is not so good, I want to erase it. Clicking the mouse will then execute background and it's gone. And now I could then, you know, try to draw a D, and do something where I sort of draw an A, and I'm, like, trying to make my name. And I don't know why I'm doing this. So, this is pretty interesting. And you've got some tools, now. You're missing a lot of things, but with color. What I would say now, as an exercise, is use Setup, use Draw, use mouse pressed. You could draw more than just a circle, see what kind of painting program you can make that allows the user, interactively, to kind of create a drawing on the screen. It's a nice constraint for an assignment. And in the next video, what I will show you is how to create your own variables. Beyond just what p5 offers for you like, where the mouse is. So you can have something move autonomously on the screen. And make that video right now, by golly. Even though it's like, after this very long day of, like, fighting with technology. That is nothing that you need to worry yourself about, it's kind of a lasting one. But I'm going to do it. OK, I have to hit Stop.