ok, let's wake up we just kind of get this idea we did something so small but so meaningful which was to introduce this idea of a variable now you might feel a little bit sad with just this grey circle moving on the screen and there's not really a lot happening and you want to have more splash, pizzaz in your program let's look at something that will get us practicing with variables a bit more and allow us to introduce much more variety into our code and that is the use of the random function i think this is really important for several reasons number 1 is that we now know that we have two kinds of lines of code that we can write. we have a function call, like line, from a bunch of values to other values, and we also know we can have assignment operations where we take a variable and set it equal to something. we can even take a variable and set it equal to itself plus something. we can create all sorts of mathematical expressions that allows us to assign a value to a variable but there is another way, we can actually do both of these in one line of code and I'm gonna show you what I mean by that. we can say something like x = random(100); now look at this this is both an assignment operation, assign x a value, and a function call. this is a function, it has a name, and arguments inside parentheses but what's so interesting about this is random() is a different kind of function than line(). and we can think of it this way when I call the function line() I issue a command, a decree in a way; draw a line! when I call the function random() instead of issuing a decree I am actually asking a question oh, function random(), could you please give me an answer to the question 'what is a random number between 0 and 100?' and the random function will say 'aha, here is a random number between 0 and 100 ... 27!' and it will give me that number back and we're gonna story it in the value x. this is incredibly useful! in fact there are lots of methods in Processing, I think we need to make a video just for this one, that work this way. there's a function called map(), there's a function called constrain(), there are a lot of functions that manipulate values for you and return back the answer to a question in a way. a random number between some minimum and some maximum. how is this useful to us? so let's look just at ... so, first of all, let's just be a little bit more specific about how the random function works. the random function can take 1 argument, so that argument, let's say I put 100 in here, is the maximum random value, this will give us a random value between 0 and 100, a minimum and a maximum. it can also take two arguments 50,100 for example this is the minimum and this is the maximum it will always give us a random number between 50 and 100 now the other thing I should point out about this it's not giving us 51, 52, 53, 54, 55 the random function actually gives you a floating point value back so in fact it 's almost giving you an infinite number of possibilities we're gonna get values like 59.231789 we're gonna get 79.003512 we're going to get floating point values. this is fine, for us, if we've declared our variables as floats we can get a float from random() and everything's ok there are some cases when you need to take the result of random() and convert it to an integer, and you'll see that in examples in the future we do not need to worry so much about that right now so this is how the random() function works. let's go take a look at that in our program! we walk over here, awkwardly, ... ok, so for example, one thing we could just do really briefly, really quickly is say let's random(0,width). So I actually wanna give circleX a random value between 0 and the width of the window and I'm gonna do something else, I'm gonna turn off the circle's motion by commenting out that line of code. this is often very uselful, if you wanna keep a line of code kind of in reserve but want to deactivate it you can just comment it out so it's commented, meaning the compiler will ignore it when it runs. so we run this program look, there's our circle, it's a random location. let's run it again! woah, that was like the same location twice! what's the odds of that? let's run it again and really hope we get something pretty different! ok, I feel better now. phew, there it is over there! we will get a new random value each time the program runs. now you may ask yourself is it REALLY random? like how random is it, you know? so the one thing we should just briefly mention is this random number comes from something known as a pseudorandom number generator. it is a mathematical function invented by people, perhaps you could spend your life kind of developing pseudorandom number generators, you could ... years of study ... but we get one for free in Processing it is not perfect randomness in the sense of what you might find in some occurrence of nature, I don't know, if you heated up some gas and watched how all the particles moved around ... and get some sort of more pure random out of that but it will exhibit some kind of pattern over time but we aren't ... we're writing, you know, sketches that draw little circles and colors on the screen, it's plenty good random for us right now! but it is coming, it is just a mathematical function written into Processing that gives you a random sequence of numbers there's other controls we can impose over that random as well which are more advanced, that I would love to discuss with you some time if you'd like to talk about that! ok, so now that we have that, that's pretty pretty good but let's think of something a little more interesting (talking about pen) let's have our circle start in the center of the window so the circle should start at width/2, oh, ha, I got something for you! remember how I was saying everyone just wants to give circleX's initial value up here, cause that's so much more convenient just to do it in one line of code? but I just want to give you a warning this will not work for you now! this will fail because the width has not been established until size() has been called this is why you wanna be careful about initializing all your variables up here. sure, it's more convenient! and it's less code! less typing! most of many examples you'll see do that but this is a nice instance where circleX should be initialized here ok, so we've established circleX is going to be in the middle we're going to move circleX again right, it's moving by 1 but what if I said this? move circleX by a random value, and I need a little more space here, between 2 and 2, right? a random number between a minimum value, 2, and a maximum value, +2 Sorry, the minimum value is 2 , the maximum value is 2. instead of saying circleX = circleX +1 every time through draw() we're going to say circleX = circleX + 1.5, sometimes 0.3, and sometimes .x, sometimes .x and if we run that, think about what it's gonna do we run it look what's happening zoom in on that ... oops ... the circle, what is it doing? it's moving randomly each frame, in a different direction so it gives us this jiggling like quality what if you had its size change randomly each frame? it's gonna have this almost ... nervous looking circle on the screen and it would be nice, maybe we could think of ways to calm it down, to soothe it, and be more gentle to it but this is kind of interesting random allows us a lot of possibilities beyond 'just give it a random location where it starts' and that is giving us the inkling of that how you can start to create behaviors, personality in a way, to the shapes that you're drawing on the screen so, another thing that I just thought that I would briefly show you I'm gonna save this as random2, I guess what I might do is all these examples are essentially similar to other examples I'm linking to but I might typing them out here and they're slightly different I might, I put them somewhere else with the link ... uh, I don't need to be telling you this right now but ok so let's just look at one other thing, so here's an exercise that I might give you which is use random to affect the x, the y, the width and height of a shape and see what type of personality you can give it. here's another exercise to see if you can use random to essentially create a painting on the screen. and let's think, what are we gonna do, let's do a pointillist painting. so, the first thing I wanna do here, and I'm gonna get you started on this is add 'circleY'. and the second thing I wanna do is draw circleY, uh, draw the circle at that location, and I'll give them both initial locations and i'm gonna take out this line of code completely and I'm going to run this program and what do we get? we get a circle that's in the middle of the screen it's x and y, width/2, height/2, there it is. now, what if instead of assigning the initial value in setup I give it a new value every time through draw()? and I say hey, give it a random value between 0 and width (phone blabla) ok, a random value between 0 and width and circleY a random value between 0 and height now we're doing that EVERY time through draw() instead of giving it a random value ONCE, and it sticks there, now we're giving it a random value every time through draw() look, it puts it in a different location every time but what if ... I took the background out and only draw the background once in setup()? now we're seeing the circle appear over and over again at different places what if I gave those circles a little bit of alpha? what if I made the size of the circles random? what if I made random values for the color of each circle? could I create some type of painting where all these random colors are blending? could I restrain the randomness? could I say the red is just between 50 and 100, and the green is between 150 and 175 to kind of create a palette of colors? so this, I think, is a nice exercise for you to kind of play around with a. can you control the motion of a singular shape through random? and also could you create kind of this painting, this collection of stuff piling up with random as well and use alpha and color and size to really create some kind of pattern? you know use lines, rectangles, other shapes besides circles? so that should get you kind of going with some stuff to play with in terms of using random() and, uh, that's what I got to say about that!