Hello in this video I'm going to talk about something called, how to clean your glasses. Theres a horrible smudge on my glasses, this is what I look like without glasses by the way. I'm going to talk about something called an associative array. Forevermore associative arrays will be associated with me cleaning my glasses what are you gonna do? What is an associative array. Ok lets talk about first, and why do we need one? First of all, the context here is I want to do a word counting application. Meaning, I want to have a list of every word thats in a document and a number associated with that word, a list of pairs of things. Word, number, word, number, key, value key, value.This is sort of where I'm going But first before I even get there, lets talk about what is an array. Which if you're watching this video hopefully you're familiar with, if not don't worry life will be ok. I might refer you to one of my videos about arrays. But an array is ultimately just a list of things, ordered list of stuff. Look at this marker its excellent! So maybe I might have some numbers like 3, 4, 19, 7, 29. Now this is an ordered list, meaning every single number has an index. And when you count with arrays in programming, generally speaking you start counting with 0. 0,1,2,3,4. So here is my array, 3,4,19,7 29, ordered in order 0,1,2,3,4. So this is a regular array, a list ordered list. An Associate array also by the way if you're hearing a strange buzzing in your ear its not just you its construction thats happening right outside the window over there while I'm recording this video. But this is life in new york city, people like to complain about construction happening in their backyard but if you live here, you signed up for it. Associate Array! Lets say I have these same numbers, I'm gonna draw them like this because even though I'm kinda giving them spatial orientation it appears they may have some sort of order, this new thing I'm going to talk about, Associate array is not really ordered. So the way that i access, if this is called Array. If this is a variable storing that, the way that I would access the number 19. Would be array index 2. With an associative array, this is an associative array, I'm associating numbers with numbers, but really what I'm talking about with an Associative array is being able to associate a key that is not just an index with a particular number. That key in many cases is a string. And all the examples I'm going to show you use a string. Of course the key can be something other than a string, a string of text. So the idea is here what if instead of referring to each of these by their index I could name them. So this one is rainbow And this one is unicorn. This one is purple, this one is heart, Oh I ran out of my happy words. This one is happy. Happy little associative array. For all you wanting me to make Bob Ross references So this is the idea, what if I could instead of having an ordered list with indexes, what if I could name all these elements. If this is my associative array, assoc, my associative array, I would say Associative index unicorn. I could put the name in the square brackets to indicate thats how I want to look up this particular value. So why is this useful? I think I need to make a separate side video related to this one I'm doing right now, to discuss when would you use and ordered list, and when would you use an associative array. In this case, of word counting you can clearly see why I might want to use an associative array. because i want to keep track of words and the number of times they appear in a given document. That noise is really driving me crazy. I have to zen out for a second. Lets just say what I wanted to do was pair words with numbers. I could say something like unicorn colon 16 comma rainbow colon 2 comma heart colon 10. You could see how this like a nice list of key value pairs, this being the key to look up a particular value, 16. Lets put some more syntax on this, Oh I'll just put a curly bracket here, and I'll put a curly bracket here and I'll say var dictionary equals this. If you're looking at this what you'll notice is thats the syntax of a Javascript object! So a javascript object is exactly this. I think i have a video that talks about what is a javascript literal object. I think what i say is its a collection of name value pairs. So in fact we can simply use the fact that a javascript object natively is a collection of name value pairs to act as a dictionary. Now there are some tricks I'm going to employ to make it usable. How do i sort its order, javascript objects don't actually have an order to them. How do i iterate over all the possibilities? We're going to see that as I build out the coding challenge, doing a word counting application. But lets just examine, theres one piece of this which is kind of crucial that I want to examine. Let me go back over to the code for a second. I'm going to go over to a browser instance, because I'm going to work just in the developer console to show you what i mean. Lets say I want to create this object called dictionary. The first thing I can do if I want to create an empty object is I can say open curly bracket closed curly bracket. Let me make that a little bit bigger for you, open curly bracket, closed curly bracket. Now i have an object which is empty. What if i want to say the number of times rainbow appeared in that dictionary is 12. Well you know I can say dictionary dot rainbow equals 12. Now if i look at the dictionary you can see, let me just do this again, you can see look, the object now has the word rainbow associated with the number 12. Lets say Im trying to track, what i actually want to look for is the number of times a writer uses a contraction, like can't or don't versus the longer way of writing that out. Can not or do not. Dictionary dot can't equals 15 because the Author that I'm analyzing used the word can't 15 times. Uncaught syntax error, invalid or unexpected token, so this seems to have broken my idea. Because thats an invalid variable name. But I have something that might want to keep track of its count. Right? I want to know I also might want to know how many times did the area code 917 appear in a text Thats not a valid variable name either I don't think,Right? So if I come back over here and say dictionary dot 917 equals it appears 25 times. Thats also invalid. One of the things thats really important here in how things work in Javascript, is that you can access the properties of an object in two ways. I can say dictionary dot heart equals 15 or I can say dictionary string heart equals 15. These are equivalent. The heart property of dictionary has the value 15, or the hart property in quotes in square brackets of dictionary has the value 15. the question becomes well this maybe looks more syntactically concise, and it might be what you're familiar with. I make a particle system particle dot x its 20, particle dot y, particle dot speed. But this is actually something, this is the syntax we'll want to use for word counting applications Why? because this will work with something like can't or 917. We can make any string inside here and set it as a valid value of the dictionary. And in fact even more important what you're going to see that I need to do in the word counting coding challenge, is I'm gonna need to have a variable. I'm reading a text in, so I don't actually have that string in my code its in a variable. So if I have a variable name I can't say dictionary dot variable name I have to say dictionary bracket the variable name if its a string in that variable. Let me make that more clear by showing you this couple steps through again here in the console. So first, lets confirm that it works, if I say dictionary 917, equals 15 that works, and I say dictionary can't, now notice I switched to using double quotes, because theres a single quote in can't and so it'll get confused it I use single quotes and a single quote, but I can just use double quotes and it'll fix that problem. I could do this, and now lets look at the dictionary and you can see, look what its got, its got 917 and its got can't in it. So you can see here that its able to keep those as names of the properties if I pass them in on a string. Now let me talk about what I mean by a variable. Lets say var word equals, did i do unicorn yet, I don't think so. Var word equals unicorn, well what happens if I say dictionary dot word equals 99. Whats gonna be in there? Is it gonna be 99 associated with the string unicorn or is it gonna be 99 associated with something called word. Lets see what happens, ok now if I look at dictionary, unicorns not in there, it thinks word is the string. It doesn't know that word is that variable, its like I can't even explain it because it doesn't make sense in my head even though it seems like maybe that would work. I have to use that other syntax, because what I want to do is say var word equals heart then I can say dictionary bracket word, now its gonna evaluate the property of that variable as heart and be able to set that number. I could say 100 and I could look at my dictionary again and we could see there are all the words and their associated counts. Heart is in there at 100, thats the thing I'm gonna need to do because I'm reading in a text and pairing the values with it. Ok so i think this defines basically the idea of what an associative array is, and how you can use one in javascript. Now how you iterate over it, how you might sort it, how you kind of mess with it, these are things that I will show you in the next video which is gonna be a coding challenge of doing a word concordance. Thanks for watching and see you soon. Subtitles by the Amara.org community