Ok, here we are again. Welcome we are at the beginning of something what's happening here is if you recall, we are talking about how to have a program choose a path essentially. How do we have a program execute some code sometimes and other code other times We are doing that with a conditional statement A conditional statement involves saying if this condition is met then execute the lines of code in between the open and curly close brackets. We can see an example of that running over here which we built in the last video I dressed it up a little bit. There is now a white line over here that shows us if the mouse is over here is less than 100 pixels and is not executing that code which draws a red background but as soon as I move the mouse over... clicking the window and have it focused and move the mouse over we can see we now have a red background. No red background Red background No red background Red background Our program is doing something different each time through draw based on a condition. This is how everything works. If you are programming Pong if the ball hits the paddle then change the ball direction and if the ball go passed the paddle change the score, etc. This is what we're doing we we just want to be able to set a condition and execute different code based on those conditions everything you do is gonna be sort of thinking through and design that logic. So that's the beginning of this, there are a few more pieces that we want to get through for example what if we were to say "i wanna draw another line i wanna draw a line that is a little bit further over and it is at 200 pixels". Let me run this now 200 and that's a little mistake there. I wanto also the top of the line to be at 200 pixels. So... here we have black background, here we have red background, here we have... red background. What if I want a third option black to red to, say, blue? I know I can say (typing) if mouseX is greater than 200 draw a blue background. I think we're gonna have that program working out black red blue depending on where the mouse is. black, red, blue. Here's the thing what is going on here? There are two different cases if the mouse is greater than 100 execute this code. If the mouse is greater than 200 execute this code. but we are actually testing both of these. We are actually drawing a red background and we are drawing a blue background. What if we have something different where instead of drawing a background we want to draw some rectangles. So let's just say let's make a red rectangle and I'll put it somewhere on the screen and while we're here, we will draw a green rectangle and we will put it a little bit lower down So, what's is going on here? no rectangle red rectangle and the green rectangle no green rectangle green rectangle no rectangles. But if I want the green rectangle to appear here and the red one disappear. In this case here what take the mouse's at 400? If the mouse is at 400 it's greater than 100 and greater than 200 so we are going to see the red rectangle and the green rectangle. There is another way we can start to make this code work slightly differently. What if we want to exclusively only execute one of these? What if we want to, let's say, this (writing) else if mouse X is greater than 200. Now, this look similar If the mouse is greater than 100 If the mouse is greater than 200 If the mouse is greater than 100 else if the mouse is greater than 200. We can think of this "else if" as the word otherwise if I hate this video that I'm making right now I have to just keep going... This is gonna be fine, we will remake all of these anyway If the mouse is greater than 100 otherwise if the mouse is greater than 200 The thing, what's important here, there's is something important here that we are totally missing. The thing that's important here with this structure "else if" with the structure if both of these can happen With the structure else if only one of these can ever be executed The interesting thing is this is a huge mistake we've made here. Pause the video. Don't pause it yet. Wait. Take a look at this. Something is horribly wrong. Syntax is fine... It'll run, Processing will give zero errors but we are gonna have a problem. Pause the video and think about that, and then come back. Ok, you're back. Let's go over here and put that code in So I'm gonna say... (typing) else if the mouseX is greater than 200 so I revise this code. The mouse is about 50 pixels it's not greater than 100, it's not greater than 200, we're just not seeing any rectangles. The mouse is now greater than 100, we're seeing a red rectangle that's what we expected to see Let's stand here, it's better when I stand here. Now I move over here. What's happening? The mouse is greater than 200 but there is no green rectangle Why is that? Let's think about it. Let's say for the moment what happens when the mouse x is 150? If mouse X is 150 this is true, so we execute this code we don't execute this code. With an else if the first thing we find to be true we leave. If mouse X is 250. 250 is greater than 100 execute this code. We leave. We're done. What happen if I make this 200 and I make this 100? All this weird logic stuff that you're stuck thinking about all the time Let's make this 200 It's just like 7 minutes, this is a disaster. This should be like a 3 minutes video just going over else if and elses this is my life right now... Here we go Mouse x is here now I've got a green rectangle now I've got a red rectangle green rectangle red rectangle Why? Because when it's 250 we're executing this code and skipping out when it's 150, this become false if this's false, we can check the next one and the next one is true and then we skip out. With else if when you have an if statement joined with an else if you only ever do one of these. And we can even go so far, just to say, else if mouse x is greater than 50... we can join this as many as we want. Let's go over here and add that in We're going to say... let's start with 500 400, just keep adding more of these in we can see we're gonna have a whole bunch of these 300, 200, and we can have different colors different locations with different sizes... Let's see what happens now. You know what? This was nice having these lines there so let's add all the lines so we can see where all the stuff is Set a line at 300 and 400. And 100 doesn't do anything anymore or maybe it does we need a line at 500. This video is a disaster. I have to remake these. I haven't really though this thru yet, I should this after something or whatever This is all like a mess and it's all wrong everything is wrong What's going on here? These pixels makes no sense these weird (unintelligible) like one (unintelligible) rectangular design that we've made. What's going on? The point that we are emphasizing here is that what we're doing is with this if statement we're creating a set of possibilities only one of which can be executed So first we see if we're greater than 500 if that's not true we see if it's greater than 400 if that's not true 300, etc. This is essentially the kind of logic you want to start programming if you want to create rollovers essentially we've created this regions that when mouse is over them something happen. Something you may try to do as an exercise right now because this video is so clearly explain all this perfectly and (unintelligible) to miss the important part which is like what else if is I should just start this over but I'm not gonna start it over (rumbling) This is fine, this is gonna be a long video later this is gonna be shorter we'll been redoing all these anyway everything is ok, we're calm we're fine, you're listening (rumbling) The exercise for you here's your Processing window divide it into four quadrants and have the quadrants highlight whenever you move the mouse over them so the mouse should be here, that's the mouse and this is showing that's highlighted As you move the mouse over create this regions rollover it's very similar to what we've done over here the only differences is instead of these horizontal regions this vertical line sections you've got a section screen on a grid Here's what kind did't say with any if statement we can also have an else.