Okay! Hello! Here we are again. I'm standing in this video in front of a particle system. Circles are falling from the sky. It is quite beautiful, it is lovely, this is a example you will find in Processing Examples under topics Simulate Simple Particle System. Why are we looking at this? We know how to draw a circle on the screen. We call the function ellipse(). We know how to draw perhaps, a bunch of circles on the screen. We could say ellipse(), ellipse(), ellipse(). ellipse() ellipse() ellipse() ellipse() ellipse(), and we'd have five circles on the screen. What if we wanted to have several hundred circles on the screen? In that case, we don't want to have to write the code ellipse() a hundred times. There's an obvious solution to this. It is saying Hey you know how to draw a circle? Draw that circ... this line of code draws a circle. Well, repeat that line of code a 100 times. So, this is what we want to learn how to do today. We want to understand how do we take a line of code or multiple lines of code, repeat them multiple times so that one concept, the singular concept of a particle falling can be done hundreds or thousands of times over. We're not going to get to this Particle System example yet. We'll start to see that when we get to ObjectOriented Programming examples. But we'll start with something simpler. So I'll leave this running there because it's a nice little effect, while we go over here! Well, hello! Okay, so we know how to write a conditional statement. A conditional statement is the clue to how we'll write a loop in this statement. So this is how we write a conditional statement if some condition such as 'x' is less than 'width', execute some code. This is a conditional statement if this evaluates to 'true', execute this code. If it evaluates to 'false', don't execute that code. Keep going. So we actually have this already set up in an example that I made before I started this video, but I never ran it. So hopefully this is going to work. We'll find out. It's good to find out. So let's run this example and we can see here what's happening. A circle Is moving across the screen because the value of 'x' is currently less than 'width', so it's incrementing it. When that's no longer true, we stop incrementing it and it stops, the 'x = x +1' stops happening. So that's a conditional statement. What is a loop? A loop. I would say 'a looping statement' but I don't think anybody says that. What is a loop? Well, there are two kinds of loops there's a 'while' loop and a 'for' loop. We're going to look first I'm getting better at this back and forth thing at a 'while' loop. Okay. Notice this conditional statement if 'x' is less than 'width', execute this code. A 'while' loop looks like this while 'x' is less than 'width', execute this code. Exactly the same format with a major, major, major difference. This is my way. Major difference. The word 'if' is here. The word 'while' is there. What does this 'if' ensure? This can happen, this code that's here, can happen 0 or 1 times. It can happen 0 times if that's false, it happens once if it's true. How many times can this line, can this code occur. It can happen 0 times, it could happen one time It Could Happen two times, all the way to, in theory, an infinite number of times. It's going to do Maybe you will write a loop someday that will happen in Infinite Number of Times and then you will, also Conquer The Universe Or something but um so this is A very key Difference While this is true Continue Executing this Code While This is True Continuing [executes] its Code if This is true execute this code Just Once so let us Walk over and Now Change our if Statement to a while Statement and Let's see what happens I'm Walking Over I'm Turning this way and here, We are I think I'm Still in the Shot, ok? So i'm going to change this to a while And something Goofy happened With the Screen Turning Gray if I shake it Around a little bit Everything's Gone Wrong I'm good, oh this was good Video is going This Is like I feel [like] my best Video yet Now it sort of fell Apart [ok], we're Fine ok here, We are [let's] Look at the screen Now here We go while x Is less than with x equals x plus 1 X Equals 0 Let's run This what's going to happen Hmm i didn't even See it Move Wait Wait Wait are You sure about that Let's run, that again run, oh It's Already there why Because it got to this Moment and it Just did this [Coat] over and over again [so] the first Time it drew the ellipse it Was Already at the Edge of the Screen Because it Incremented it over and Over and [over] again until it got to be With and Then went Down to the Bottom so this is interesting While x Equals x plus 1 So so what what's Going on here, Well first What Would What's Really Happening here Let's Take this Code and put it inside the While loop Look I don't see Anything hmm what's going on There Interesting Question ah So hard to describe and I want to go back and draw something but. I want to Keep This Video Short This Way This Is why You Practice or you Plan in Advance There's A very Big Problem going, on here The first Time, We go [Through] and Shouldn't, We see x? Was 0 then x Is 1 Then 2 Then 3 Then 4 and Every One of Those Times, we're Drawing A? Circle Let's Just See circles the whole Way across that's what you might Expect? Well That's what Happened The first Time Through Draw. The second Time Through draw. What was the value of x With So, we need to Make sure With this Particular While loop That We Reset x back To 0 Every Time Through draw Now Look what Happened This is Interesting [Looks] Kind, of like a streak of Line Across the Screen Let's Change this to x Equals x plus 20 Now, We see the Purpose of a while loop the Purpose of a while loop is to Say? Repeat This Code a bunch of Times How Many Times Well if The width IS 400 and we're Going Up by? 2400 Divided By 20, is like 20 so Maybe There's 20 circles Maybe There's 19 If we're Off [by], one who knows the point is We have now? Successfully Repeated A single One Circle Many Times With one Line of [Code] I like Standing this Way Because I could point at the Code so How Are We doing this x Equals Zero While x is still less Than With Keep Drawing Circles The way up until x is no longer, less Than With and then Leave that leave leave the while loop and go back and Circle Through Draw again This Would be a nice Time [for] me Asking [Few] Questions but You're Not Really There [But] you might have a Question I guess at this Point Just email me if You have a question Whatever There Are some other Important Things I wanted to Say [about] this This Let's Just Look at this for a second what Would happen if Ah This is Really good this is good what Would happen if I put Mouse x in Here This Is an Interesting Question I'm going [to] run this Code, [oh]? Oh Nothing I'm Getting Nothing okay, here's the essential problem [I]? Forgot To put on a timer so I have no idea How long this Video has Been Said Barbara I'm sure it's Way longer Than I ever imagined or one That's okay, you, Could stop now you could Actually Just stop Now Going to the next Video but I'm going to say a couple of good things Hopefully so okay so? Let's Look at this While Loop While X is less [than] With Draw A circle At an x Location What if I put Here x is equal to Zero and Then I said x Equals x Minus 1 What is the Major Problem With This Loop There is no? Syntactical Problem We've Got semicolons we've got Parentheses Even Curly Brackets to the right Place Everything is good but We have A fundamental problem with this Code x? Equals 0 Then x is negative 1 that's Less than With the Nexus Negative 2 That's Lesson with This Would get a stuck in an Infinite Loop [an] Infinite Loop Which Happens Forever and Ever [and] Can, Never Break out we're Never Going to get [to] end up draw We're Never going to See Anything loops must Always Have an Exit Condition and It is Up [to] you To Make Sure That That Exit Condition is Bet Logically Through the what However you Organize The Logical Thinking of your Code it's not Prospects not going to Say like hey I'm looking at your Code and you know your eggs a Condition Never Be met if These Possibilities Happen and This happens if This happens you Probably want to like Look at that again and Make Sure [you're] [right] better Code No it Could only view the Syntax it's fine Saying like I'll just Keep Looping that's what you told me to Do I'm just going to do it no problem you, won't like the result because this Is what you're Going to get so why Do We have an Infinite loop in Here why what, we're Saying x? Equals x plus sorry, Mouse x Well what Value of Mouse x Would give Us an Infinite loop? You might be Thinking 0 [it's] like if your Watch Dora the explorer [I] say you Shout 0 like you could talk to the TV Probably Not Anyway I Wish i could hear you Sounding 0 but? When the Value Is 0 x Is not going to increment it's never going to be Greater than With This is Never going False There's No Exit Condition so I should Just be able to move the Mouse now the value of Mouse [x] is like 200 right it's like it's or Around 200 Shouldn't I have my I Should Be Exiting my loop Now the Problem Is mouse x only ever Updates Once Through draw so if it was 0 iTs 0 We're Stuck in an Infinite loop so let's Just get Ourselves out of that Problem We have to write better logic more Sound Logic so we don't have that Problem? What is the way You might get out of that Problem, well what if I? Say If Mouse x is less Than 1 Say x Equals x plus [1] Otherwise Then it's okay so in other Words I am only? Allowing There's other Ways to solve This Problem but this is a nice Simple way, [of] using a, conditional Statement [Whoa], inside of loop We have this Is why Blocks of Code are so important? We have the loop Block of Code and Now? We have Another Block of Code Inside This Is something you have to get used to doing We want to Say As Long as [x] Is less than With? You Know and if Mouse [x] Is less [Than] 1 We better go up by? one so We meet the Exit Condition Otherwise don't worry We can go up by now Sex Because it's some positive Number Eventually We'll get out of the loop and here We go? We're Going to run this now and We can see what is exciting about this Is? That The Displacement between The Circles Is relative to Mouse x right here Mouse x is Probably Around 50 Or something so it's Probably A terrible Estimation of the Pixels but you Can see what's Happening Here and When [Mouse] [x] is Zero It just increments by one so So this is a while