So I'm actually going to come over here, [and] I'm going to Save this and I'm going to do "while" "grid" call this "while grid" and We're we're going to make this very simple We're going to give up a white stroke. Let's make the stroke weight two pixels so they're a little bit easier to see and then we know we want to draw a line from (x , 0) to (x , height) and if we just set x for the moment at 50 Let's see where that line is we have our 1 vertical line. So now we were saying okay if I have one vertical line I could do x = x + 50 and draw that line again And now I would have two vertical lines. So why not this is the code that needs to happen over and over again So why not say let's just do that code? Let's just do that code as long as x < width Let's run that,and now we've got that. You can see all of our lines going nicely across the screen and, hey! if we did this with x why not just do it with y and while y < height we want to draw a line from what (0 , y) to (width , y) and increment y by 50 ah what's wrong the field component dot y is not visible? That's what it says down at the bottom oy vey What's happening? I have forgotten. I'm using a variable but I forgot to declare and initialize it so I just [need] to make sure I add my variable y up top and then we come down here, and I'm going to just scroll down so we can see the draw function and run it and What do we see we have x going across y going down? We have our beautiful grid interestingly enough. What is this? There's all these numbers x equals 50 well, let's start x 0 [y] at 0 [why] there's this number 50 here Well that should give us an idea why don't I have a variable called spacing and have that be equal to 50 x equals x plus spacing and Then y equals y plus Spacing this should give us the same result it does but now I have something exciting I can do what if I were to say? spacing equals spacing plus random Negative [to] some random number between negative 2 [and] 2 now we can see the spacing in between the lines Is changing randomly, So I? I Hesitate to offer that this is any sort of interesting or exciting visual effect But it's showing you how we can use a loop to draw many lines across the screen And then we can vary how we're doing that by using random Using the mouse you hopefully will come up with something creative. You could change the colors