Hello welcome to a p5.js video tutorial about how to use Code Pen with p5.js. Now codepen is a web browser based code editor and it allows you to type some HTML stuff in this a box here it allows you to type some CSS stuff in this box over there, and then in that box on the end, that I can't reach 'cause my arms will get cut off, you could typesome javascript stuff so there's a lot to CodePen am sure there's a lot of features I'm actually you might be watching this is an archived video but i'm actually doing this as a live stream and I'm using something called CodePen professor mode and there are 27 people watching me live code this right now at this very moment but what I want to do is just make a quick p5.js sketch and see how it works with CodePen and some of the features of CodePen that I might discover along the way because I actually haven't really used CodePen before. This is my... I'm discovering this as I make this tutorial ok so first thing we want to do is let's look under settings here and I want to go under javascript so one thing that I want to do is I want to make available the p5.js javascript libraries now I could add references to those in the HTML file but since CodePen has this feature I can actually just add a URL to my javascript library right here and now how do i find the p5.js javascript library? It just so happens that if I google CDN, CDN by the way stands for Content Delivery Network because it's going to deliver, it's a network that will deliver our content, the content in this case being the p5.js library and I'm gonna do this CDN p5.js and we're going to come to this URL which is cdnjs.com/libraries/p5.js/ and now I'm going to see a whole bunch of urls. Now one that I want right here for the main p5.js library is this one so i'm going to grab that, I'm going to copy it and I'm going to go back to CodePen oops.. CodePen and am gonna place it in here and then I'm going to add another.. amm while I'm here I might as well add, let's add the DOM library as well so I'm going to get the DOM library and am gonna put that in here and then hopefully I'm gonna save and close and now if i go back to settings we should see that these files are referenced and incidentally popular JavaScript libraries that you might use are available directly right here so if I wanted to use jQuery for whatever reason I could just kind of go into this menu here ok yay ohh oww I have a giant pimple on my nose and I just whacked it, it hurts. I don't know if you zoom in to the pixels this is going to be permanently in this video forever now but you can zoom in and try to find it. It's very umm... it's quite noticeable ok so here I'll close.. maybe I will edit that out, I wont edit that out it's too it's too it's just there. Ok so now I'll.. let's just see, so one thing I'm gonna do is I don't really care about CSS or HTML right now, I mean I care about them CSS and HTML I care about you but right now they're not the primary focus I just want to see if things are working. I'm gonna add function setup() am gonna say createCanvas (200,200). I'm gonna say background 0 and I'm gonna hit save and look at that, there. P5.js sketch running in CodePen. I don't know what else should we do in this tutorial? I didn't come up with something to make let's just make sure things animate. I'm gonna add function draw() and I'm going to say ellipse(mouseX, mouseY, 16, 16) and am gonna hit save. I hit Command + S by the way to save and you can see now there is my sketch running I could also add something like createP() which is part of p5 DOM and I could say "This is a sketch.. this is a painting sketch" and hit Command + S again and you can see now there I have a paragraph element there. We could add something like let's see a print line test actually let's let's.. let's add the mousePressed() function [laughs] somebody in the chat is mentioning that 'createP' sounds like something else I guess that's true. Umm println(mouseX) so I want to look at the console. There's a console here and I can click and every time I click you'll see my.. oh this is very hard for you to see so let's zoom in on this, you can see that I also have access to a console right here in CodePen, this is lovely to use. I lov.. CodePen am enjoying it quite well. Look there's a chat here look people are talking in the chat because they're watching this live and I am also going to say change view and I can now do.. Oh look at this so you can see one of the nice things is there are different views here so if I want to go to presentation or full page I can actually.. I could click on that or I could also just go up to the URL and type full here and now you can see there's my sketch. So this is actually how you make a p5 sketch in CodePen. It was really quite easy and I wish I had prepared to do some other stuff in this video I'm going to just pause and maybe this video will continue in a second where I do some more stuff I'm back and I've decided that it's okay to have a very short just like five minute video that showed you very quickly how to use p5.js in CodePen so if, I'm gonna do this in future videos if, you have questions about it or features you want me to explore please let me know in the comments or at the Rainbow Topics GitHub repository that is also linked to in the description of this video. Thanks for watching.