Hello, welcome to another genetic algorithms' video.. boy I seem to be making a lot of these genetic algorithm's videos recently this is.. in this video I'm going to explore something called interactive selection. The idea is a lot of ideas behind interactive selection pioneered by Karl Sims, here is a reference to an artwork a project created in 1997 the museum exhibit. You can look kind of here at this image and what you see in this image are a lot of screens and these screens are displaying images and then you see along the floor here all these sensors. So a viewer at this museum exhibit would come and stand in front of an image and when the viewer is standing in front of the image and looking at the image they're standing on the sens.. sensor and some type of counter some type of algorithmic system is keeping track of how long the viewer is standing on top of that sensor. Why is all this happening? Ok so I've said before when I've talked about using a genetic algorithm in a project I've said there are two main things that are really up to you to design that your sort creative input into what's going to happen in your project, one is this idea of a genotype vs phenotype which is also a really sort of key factor in the Karl Sims project that I'm showing to you and the thing that I'm going to demonstrate and make for you as well but really what am talking about right now is this fitness function. The reason why I've come over here on the whiteboard to kind of write that down is usually the next stop from here is what is the math formula for the fitness? Well it's you know inverse distance squared divided by the amount of time it took to do this and the blah blah blah blah you're coming up with some kind of number of characters correct blah blah.. some type of actual mathematical function. Well in this case there is nothing other than the amount of time of a viewer spent looking at a particular image so in this case it's the behavior of the visitor to the exhibit that is driving the fitness function and you can think of this as a lot of other ways you can have a rating system you know the fitness of a particular piece of music is the amount of star ratings it got on some you know music sharing web service type of thing so user input into the fitness user driven design, right? You could be saying I want to design a particular a pattern for a dress but instead of hand making that design I'm going to just have a program algorithmically generated hundred designs I'm going to look at them pick the ones I like and generate a hundred new designs. So you could evolve where you are essentially the designer assigning fitness of the things in the evolutionary system and that's what's happening here in this particular exhibit. So how would you do that? But, this is really all I have to say this video is really more about this idea and actually this.. it becomes there's so many possibilities; do I write a web application or do I create something with computer vision and perhaps I can explore, if you have some suggestions, some particular scenarios but I have for you just to look at some code and see an example happening I have perhaps what might be the lamest version of interactive selection ever and I'm going to show you this example and talk you through the code a little bit. So this is the example right here and what it has that you can see if i zoom in here is a bunch of different designs for faces and as you can see as I hover my mouse over them I'm incrementing a number. So i'm saying here like this I really really like this particular face design so I have these designs, I have about I think there's ten of them, here; one two three four five six seven eight nine ten and I've given them all a rating and then I have a button here that i can press evolve next generation and I click that button and you can see I now have a new generation of designs from the ones that got a high rating and I can say you know what I love purple let's give this one a high rating but the size of this one is pretty good let's hit evolve and you can see I've got a lot of purple ones now so again and I could keep hitting evolve and you can see there's some mutation at play and things happening I'm not suggesting to you that there's anything particularly revolutionary about this but it is showing you the basic mechanics of this system so let me.. let me.. let's.. let's.. let's think about how this works number one is I'm using some form of interaction like a roll over to increment the fitness value for a particular face and then uh and and then then I also have this idea of a design so there's also this question here of... [laughs] there was nothing written there. There's also this question here of genotype vs phenotype so in Karl Sims' example, if you read the paper that I have linked in this video's description, there's an elaborate discussion of how the images in the exhibition are created out of these kind of like mathematical formula sequences written in a programming language Lisp and all sorts of craziness like that but what I'm actually doing in my particular example which is quite a technique that you can apply is I actually have a a DNA the DNA is actually just a sequence of floatingpoint numbers and each floating point number is between 0 and 1 so that is the signature for the design and if I go you can see we have this idea of genotype and phenotype if I look at the code very briefly in dna.js you can see this is the genotype right here this is the data; an array of genes everything with a random number between 0 and 1 and then the expression of that data is in the face object and the face object right here you can see that expression happening here so this face object has a lot of parts of its design. It has a size.. a radius an eye x and y position, the size of the eyes, an eye color, a mouth color the mouth position, the mouth width, the mouth height and all of those things are taking these numbers between 0 and 1 and mapping them into some other range like a color between 0 and 255 or a position between 25 and 60 that type of thing. So this is a one way of taking this idea of data and then mapping it to a bunch of variables which then draw this kind of ridiculous design of a face with a couple rectangles so I think that you as a person watching this video probably could come up with a much more creative or beautiful or interesting type of design perhaps you can think of it as like a vectorbased shape of paths or you could think of other ways of encoding your design maybe it's a piece of music so it's not actually even a visual design it's a sequence of notes and rhythms but whatever that is then you just need a rating system and in this case I just have this rollover function that whenever the user is rolling over that particular object the fitness is going up by some small amount pretty arbitrary but you could have a drop down menu to assign rating but one of the things I think is kind of key to realize about this kind of system so if I go back to show you just really really briefly if I would go back to this Shakespeare example, right? The Shakespeare example look at this in the time I talked there I evolved a hundred seventy five generations each population having 200 elements. Let me run this example for you again and there's ten elements in the population and I'm clicking around oh and I'm gonna have to.. I've got to actually rate some and I got eight generations with 10 elements so the scale here is a bit of a problem while with this kind of numeric fitness function of mathematical calculation I could just be churning churning out generation after generation after generation after generation over and over again but here I've got a look at it, I've got to evaluate it, I've got to think about it, I've got to roll over it then I've got to click the button so scale is an issue but one thing you might think about is the web the network a distributed network of viewers.. could you create some type of system maybe you could have a website by the way that has a different design, this is kind of an awful idea, but you know you have a website where you want somebody to buy something or think of something besides buy, you just want someone to download a nice flower image because that's going to make the world a better place what if you showed a different design each time somebody came to the website and the sort of rating of that design was how likely whether or not that person got to sort of some end result of using the website. You can think of this as it kind's of ties into this idea of reinforcement learning but you could evolve a particular design through users kind of unconscious behavior of just kind of using a particular website whether it's intuitive or not or playing a game. There's lots of possibilities besides just rating but the point is if you have something up on the web you can have a lot of people rating and evolving all at the same time with like a centralized database. Anyway I'm rambling on and on and on in this video and you could find this code link to in the description of the video I hope that you maybe try to make your own evolutionary design system with interactive selection and share it with me and so we can see what kind of new and creative ideas and maybe if you share some with me I'll come back and make a video where I show some of them so that you guys can see what other people have been making. Ok see you soon in another video soon. I've got one more genetic algorithm video at least coming in the pipeline here that'll be after this one in the playlist. Ok, goodbye. Subtitles by the Amara.org community