Hello, and welcome to a special episode of The Coding Train, where I'm going to show you the recording studio where I make all of the tutorial videos and livestreams. So I'm at the Kanbar Institute of Film and TV at NYU Tisch School of the Arts. Behind this door is a small closet where I've recorded many video tutorials. Other people have made tutorials and things from this room. And actually, we're going to be moving to a new studio later this summer, so I wanted to make sure to document this in case you want to make your own video tutorials. Hopefully, there'll be some nice tidbits of information for you. All right, I'm going to open this door and I'm going to go inside. Come on. And I have now entered the studio space. I am walking over to the desk where I record everything, and I'm seeing you because I'm recording from here. There's a camera here recording. Those are the only two things that are recording right now. So I'm actually also currently streaming this to YouTube. It's not publicly livestreamed right now. Members and patrons are watching. And so what I'm going to do is talk through all of the different pieces of what I use when I'm livestreaming, and then we'll show you from different perspectives so you can see how everything works. So the first thing that I want to show you is this computer over here. So, this is actually the streaming computer. It's not the streaming computer. It's the monitor attached to the streaming computer. And it's running Open Broadcast Studio, which is what I'm using to send the audio and video data. And it has also got a little window of a YouTube chat going here that I can see. And so the most important thing to do if you want to stream to YouTube which, you can use Open Broadcast Studio to stream to a number of other things is to connect YouTube with Open Broadcast Studio. And the way you do that is through the livestreaming dashboard. So this is the dashboard. It shows a little preview of what I'm streaming. It shows how many people are viewing at a given time, the average watch time, play times, the chat rate. I have already connected Open Broadcast Studio and YouTube because I'm broadcasting this and recording it to disk. But I'm going to show you how to do that. So under the stream settings, there's a particular property called Ingestion. And you can see here there's a stream URL, a backup server URL. These are all already put into the streaming software, Open Broadcast Studio. But there is also this stream name/key. So if I were to copy this and then change into Open Broadcast Studio under Settings, under Stream, this is where I want to paste that key. Now, this is grayed out right now because I'm already streaming, but that's how YouTube my event on YouTube, my livestreaming event on YouTube is connected to Open Broadcast Studio itself. So there's a lot of other settings here under Output. I can change the Recording, the Audio settings, all sorts of things. But you can see right here under these buttons, I am streaming, and I am recording. So now that we see how Open Broadcast Studio and YouTube are connected, let's look at how is Open Broadcast Studio getting the camera image, my laptop image, combining it, all that sort of stuff. So everything starts with this computer over here on the floor. Probably, it would be better to put this on a shelf or something, but what are you going to do? So, this is a Canon Mark III 5D. It's plugged into power, so it's not running off of battery. It has HDMI OUT. That HDMI OUT is going through a Black Magic box, which basically takes HDMI IN, Thunderbolt OUT, and converts it to a capture device. So it then goes into this computer and it's being captured. The laptop, through USBC, is also connected to HDMI, which also goes into a Black Magic box and into the computer. In Open Broadcast Studio, I can then create a scene. And so let's make a new one. I'm gonna make a new scene called "test." That's a great name. [AUDIO OUT] All right, now I've added the mic. You can actually hear me. But the screen is black. So now I added the mic input. So this scene now has audio. Then what I'm going to add is let's add another source. And because those go through those Black Magic boxes, I can add a Black Magic device. I can add an existing one like green canon. And there it is. It's actually already got the chroma keying filter, but let me just turn that off. I'm going to hide that. So now you can see this is the actual camera view. You can see this secondary laptop that I have with green paper on it. I'm going to just shrink this so you could see. I could rotate it, I could flip it, I could do color, I could do all sorts of stuff to it. There's lots of features of Open Broadcast Studio. But let me add another source. I'm going to go Blackmagic Device, and I'm going to add laptop. Now you can see, the laptop is the feed from here, but it's covering it. So what I want to do is move green canon above it. So now you can see the green canon is above it. But let me put the chroma keying back in. So I'm going to click on that, Filters add Chroma Key. We could just see and by the way, there's lots of other filters here that you could try. I'm going to hit Close. I'm going to put this down, and there we go. And I'm going to put myself over to the side. So this is basically the configuration I use for The Coding Train when I'm live broadcasting. So I'm here. I can turn here. I can sort of see. So if I pull up some code, if I pull up, like, the p5 web editor, I can see it over here as I stand this way. So it's like I'm telling you what the weather is in the p5 web editor. So I look over here at the camera, I type over here on the computer, then I go and I sort of see a monitor of the composite. Then I see that over here. So also, while I'm livestreaming, I like to keep the corner of my eye on the live chat. So usually what I'll do is I'll take the chat as a little pop out window, and put it next to Open Broadcast Studio, and increase the size of the font. And we can see, now, all of the various members like SolarLiner, and Xavier, and motiontx who are watching and telling me that there was no sound earlier, which is always really helpful. I also have a secondary Slack channel going on this extra laptop where I also keep the dashboard so I can see who's watching and how many people, which right now is nine concurrent viewers. So maybe you've also noticed that I sometimes play music or different sound effects. And those are coming here from this iPad. So this iPad is running a piece of software called Soundcue. The audio is playing out of this laptop, to coming out of the headphone jack into this little Onyx Blackjack USB recording interface. So it actually then comes out of here, USB, into this laptop. Because that way, the laptop's audio is going out into the recording system. So that can be included as part of the live broadcast, because when I play audio here, under laptop, you can see the green under microphone going up, and you can see the green under laptop going up. Both of these are two separate audio sources. So I can capture audio from this laptop itself, if there was sound in an example I'm programming. But I could also get the audio from this iPad, into this laptop, into there. And to do that, I'm using a piece of software called Loopback. Loopback is Taking the audio from the Onyx Blackjack interface, and it's actually monitoring it out through the MultiOutput Device, which is actually the DisplayPort, the HDMI OUT port. And then it's coming into Open Broadcast Studio that way. So this mic here is going directly into Open Broadcast Studio via a separate USB input to the streaming computer, but then the audio from this iPad is coming out separately through this computer. This computer. So many computers. This lab mic, this is the wireless receiver. So all the audio from this mic here is coming into here. Then this is another USB interface into the streaming computer. So that's where my audio is coming from. So over here in this other part of the closet, I have a second camera, also HDMI OUT into a Black Magic box. And this camera is pointed at this whiteboard. So this is actually not a whiteboard. It's just whiteboard paint on the wall. So it's actually not the greatest because it's hard to clean, but it is nice that it covers so much space. So what I do during a live stream, if I want to draw some sort of diagram, with a rainbow, and this one's going to be a cat. Then what I do is, I have a separate scene that's in Open Broadcast Studio called whiteboard. So I could just click on this, and there you go. You see the whiteboard. I'm going to go back to this one. But that's inconvenient. I used to have this button that was hooked up to change, to tell it to give up, Open Broadcasting Studio, to switch between the different scenes. But it so happens that you could just use a keyboard to do this. So in Open Broadcast Studio, under Settings, under Hotkeys, you can set certain keys to switch to a certain scene. So if I say Two, then now I've switched to the whiteboard. I can walk over here. You can see me. I can draw here on the whiteboard. And then I can walk back. And if I hit One, I'm now back over here talking to you about this. So Two goes to the whiteboard, One, and then I have other hotkeys. Like, the key z will quickly turn off the computer. So if ever I'm about to type in a password or some secret API key that I don't want people to see, I can turn that off. Or if I'm playing I forgot to do this, actually, this morning but If I'm playing a video or something and I don't want to stand in the shot, I can disappear or reappear however I want. There's so much more in Open Broadcast Studio. You know, I could have a fade between the scenes and all that kind of stuff. I could have a preview of what's coming next. But I'm using it the most simple way. I also always keep my copy of A Million Random Digits nearby in case I want to relax and read some random numbers. I usually have a train whistle, but I didn't bring it with me today. It's very sad. But I do have a bell which I like to ring. Thank you for watching this behindthescenes video about The Coding Train recording studio here at NYU at Tisch School of the Arts. As I mentioned earlier, this studio is being shut down at the end of this month. We're moving to a new building in Brooklyn. I'm hoping to set up some recording equipment and a new space there, and also, I have some other designs and some other places that I might make videos. So stay tuned for that. If you have questions about the setup, things that I didn't cover, please ask them in the comments. If you have your own live streaming setup that you use or have tips for people, please add those as well. And thank you so much. Goodbye. I'm still here.