Hello and happy pi day part 2 I'm gonna do another coding challenge and this coding challenge will be about visualizing the digits of pi So I'm gonna use a file that I've prepared of 1 million digits of pi I also will include links in this video's description to a file with 10 million digits and a file I think that has a billion digits I can't remember Which one I found but various people have posted files with a lot more digits that I'm gonna use so you might be interested in Trying it out with even more digits cuz boy. Let's just make as many digits as we can now. This is inspired by two artists I'm sure I'm gonna pretend. apologies for mispronouncing the names, but Martin kryzwinski and Cristian vasile. Who have made? Christian Ile Elise faasil who have made a whole lot of beautiful images Visualizing the digits of pi, so I encourage you to check out this Washington Post article I'll link to that there's also a wonderful Numberphile video called the beauty of Pi or something like that that I will link to that goes through some of their visualizations I'm gonna try to do something really simple, so let's get started by loading those digits so first what I want is I actually want to have a string because I want to take all the digits of pi and put them in a string although ultimately maybe I'll break that into an Array of integers, but that's how they're gonna come in they're coming in from a text file, so I'm gonna call it pi Just P. I lowercase. I don't want to say P. I uppercase because that's a builtin constant in processing Let's just arbitrarily have a window That's 400 by 400 then I'm gonna say pi equals load strings, so load strings is a function That's part of processing. This is processing by the way a Java based programming environment That what it actually does is it loads, and I have a file? It's right here PI 1 million dot txt. You can see those are a lot of digits in that file So I just need to reference the file name here. We go file name Now what this actually I'm getting an error here And what is that error that error is type this match? Java dot blank string bracket bracket does not match with Java dot laying dot string the reason why this doesn't match is the Processing load strings function takes in your data into an Raye, and this is actually often quite useful especially if you have data in multiple lines because it takes every line from the text file and breaks it into an array but this Text file just has one line so I can actually just take Zero, just the first element of that array, and I'm gonna say print line pi Just to see if this appears in the console. Oh boy I'm gonna freak it out because it should be a million digits there Let's say PI dot length to make sure I have a million digits Oh Oh, I forgot in the Java Length for a string is a function I was like whoa I'm so used to programming in JavaScript in Java length for the string as a function I'm gonna say dot length and there we go. I've got 1 million digits of pi. We're Cookin here now. We're cooking okay, so let's actually break that into an array So let me make an array called digits, which has 1 million spots in it And I wonder if actually actually I don't need to initialize it because I think I can say String Call it s digits equals PI dot split and if I give it know if I say split with no Delimiter so this is like splitting the string but splitting it based on no delimiter this should give me an array with a million strings in it So I should be able to say let's just see s digits. Not lengths. This is an array so with an array I don't need the parentheses because it's not a function. It's actually just the property of the array let's look at that 1 million 1 million yeah, so I've got a million and now I can and then again This is not necessary the most efficient way I can actually just I think processing has a function called int Which will just convert that array entirely into integers so now if I say print Array, and I probably am going to overload the console here, but I'm gonna do it anyway I'm gonna hit save and I'm gonna run it I Now have a look at this. I am now printing the entire million digits of pi into the console just Try loading the bill digits and pretty good the console see how long that takes What am I up to I'm gonna get to I'm in gonna get to a million before I finish talking There we go you can see on that last digit. There is one. Okay, so now I have all these digits. What can I do? So many things right I could just fill the screen with all the digits And I could be surrounded by the digits of pi now I mean either way I almost want to stop this now and say hey Be creative make something I think what I'm going to try to do is visualize the frequency of the digits So let's just actually make a simple line Right, let's say There are 10 digits, so I'm gonna go I equals 0 so I'm gonna make I'm gonna make an array called counts And Has 10 spots in it, okay? And so and then I'm going to also have an integer which is like current digit Which will equal zero so the first thing that I actually current index I'll just call that index because what I want to say is current digit Equals pi digits Index, and then I'll go to the next index I got to worry about when I get to a million Bell deal with that later right so I can look at the current digit Then I I have made something called counts already, and I could say counts current digit plus plus so I'm going to increase the count for each current digit and Then what I will do is let's just draw a little let's go Let's start with x equals zero. I say let's use. I I equals zero I is less than counts dot length I Plus plus and I could do a little math here I can say the width is the width of the window divided by cats length and so, that's X is going to equal I times width and Y is going to equal just a height divided by two So I'm just going to draw something in the middle how about an ellipse and I probably should offset it by half the width so X comma Y, and I'm just going to draw some circles oh Boy, let's get rid of that console that bit line. That's going be a problem apologies everybody And I probably should make a smaller file data file to work with while I'm developing this, but you can see now I just got a whole bunch of circles now What I want to do is actually let me make the size of the circle The size of the circle relative to the The number of digits there are so counts Index I why is that giving me an error Float does not match with int that's fine. Let's can let's make this an int So the more times oh This is this should be an int that's that's my problem the index into the array has to be an int I don't know why I put a float there this can be a float because it can convert it so now if I do this What we're seeing is Every time it finds one of those digits, it's growing that circle now They're just going to go bigger and bigger and you can see well the distribution is somewhat even Have I really discovered anything interesting here? I'm not so sure let's put these in The path of a circle that'll be more interesting so first of all let me give this a background here and Let's think about this so okay, so let's actually make let's think about polar coordinates for a second So I'm gonna say Angle equals Map I which goes from zero to count length two between zero and two pi pi is appearing now right I want to get an angle all the way around a circle and Then I want my X to be Some radius, so like let's say Let's say 200 in this case 200 times Cosine of that angle and this is me converting from polar coordinates an angle and a radius to Cartesian coordinates I have a video about that that I will link to if this is unfamiliar territory to you Y equals 200 times sine of that angle So and then let's also translate To The middle of the window because I want to I want to offset everything from the center of the window and let's take a look And see what this gives us So now you can see I have now put them all around them this is this is this is digit 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 so I've I Have I have? normalized in the past 0 so I don't know if this size is really that interesting one of the One of these artworks if I scroll down here actually what it does and this it doesn't in a more sophisticated way is, it's Connecting digits to the next digit. That would be super interesting to try let's try that so I actually need to look at the next digit in this case right, so I don't need to worry about this counts stuff I Actually don't even need to worry about this loop thing ok hold on let's let's figure this out Let's so let me save this. I'm gonna save this as pi day 3 because I'm gonna I'm gonna rip this apart now for a second, so let me let me take this out Let me get rid of all this count stuff and Let me say Digit equals digits index, and then let me say next digit equals digits index plus 1 So I'm going to look at each digit and the next digit Now what I'm going to do is I'm going to say angle 1 equals And I might as well use the math function digit, which goes between 0 and 10 between 0 and 2pi I Could precompute all these locations Angle 2 is next digit So now I just need to do that polar to Cartesian transformation again thing again. I'm going to say 200 times cosine of angle 1 Y1 equals 200 times sine of angle 1 I'll do the same thing for x2 and y2 Sine of angle 2 cosine of angle and now what if I draw a line from X 1 X 2 to y 1 y 2 So this is me looking at every digit the next digit mapping those points taking those points around the circle and connecting them let's see what this does ah Beautiful guess what the default stroke for a line in processing is black, so let's make this stroke 255 Okay, so this is working I think Let's let's make the window a little bit bigger so that there is Let's draw a nice Let's put move background to setup and let's draw a little circle also So let's say stroke 255 let's grab the translate here also and let's Say no fill. I just want to draw a little circle so we can see that path and I'm going to say 0 0 200 200 that 200 should definitely be a variable and let's try this again Oops so the size of the circle is 400 400 right because it's the width so what have I done wrong here Why are these points around a square pattern the line function oh my goodness Look at this probably everybody has been yelling at me when you watch this whole video the lines are totally the wrong place X1y1 to x2y2 the line function takes the first point and the second point and this is all messed up Ok so now let's run this again There we go so now you can see that. I am filling up the space now Honestly all the kernel looks like is everything's connected to everything which of course is the case So maybe what I need to do is think about color Think about blending think about those positions There so, but you're seeing here some interesting possibilities here So I haven't really made anything so beautiful That wasn't the point of me making this video the point of me making this video was to show you how to load all the digits of pi how to iterate over them and how to start thinking about drawing based on them And if you look through and read this, Washington Post article or think creatively on your own I am sure you will come up with your own PI drawing so please share Pi train no hashtag pi train on twitter go to the coding trade comm and submit your there's a there'll be information there at the page for this coding challenge of how to submit your version of it share with me on twitter share with me in the comments, I would love to see your visualization of all of the digits of pi Yeah, so in the chat, I'm being told oh add some randomness a little bit of randomness to those locations That would certainly help I guess I could do that before I leave I mean I'm not going anywhere But like I could and Gaussian random this might be nice, but like what if I just say oh? Tonight it's a sorry. Let's add a little bit of randomness each time Actually the randomness should be in between Whatever the the difference between each angle is so hold on the difference between two angles is two pi divided by ten So I want to pick something random in between there Let's try that let's try that just to get a little Sun thing and then let's make this stroke wait Stroke, let's give it like some alpha And now we can see I don't know whether I've made anything better necessarily, but But you can see this is like a variation on this theme so you You the viewer of this video are a more creative visually talented person than I am that I am sure of so I don't want to go too far this. I'm not adding any color I'm not being thoughtful about those positions the circular idea is just one idea a grid is another idea Somebody suggested making a skyline based on the digits of pi there's so many designs that you could think about making based on the digits of pi and Another thing that I'm going to do in the neck video is Look at how to think about scale so this is me just making it in a processing sketch But what if I want to it does kind of look like the moon, which is pretty interesting? What if I want to? Render out the digits of pi to a giant highresolution poster, so I'm going to look at that in the next coding challenge