Hello! What you're about to watch is an edited version of a live stream that I did almost a month ago. This was actually the sixth time that I've done that. It was the endofsemester ITP and IMA Spring Show 2019. I teach here at a program called ITP that's a twoyear master's program, and also IMA, our Interactive Media Arts, that's an undergraduate major at Tisch School of the Arts, New York University. At the end of every semester all the students get together and do a show, two nights only, of their work. So, I wandered around with a camera, and a bunch of people helping me, and it was lots of fun, and had a microphone, and looked at various projects. You can watch the full live stream. It's a little over two hours, if you wanna check this video's description, or enjoy this highlight reel. Happy summer! Have a wonderful summer! See you in some future coding training videos. (train whistle blows) (happy easygoing music) Can we see the dinosaur project? Can the dinosaur explain the dinosaur project? I'm Emily. I'm Maya Pruitt. Dylan the Dino. Dylan the Dino. And we have another groupmate, Mingna. Yes. For this piece, we partnered with Dr. Michael Rampino, who's a geologist, and also a researcher, at NYU. He specifically studies mass extinction. So we made an AR app where people are invited to become a geologist by scanning the rock layers for evidence of mass extinction and more information about earth's history. This is your tool. And if you find an object, you can scan it, and an AR component will appear. This one's one of our favorites. We call him Ancestor Shrew, because he is the ancestor of all placental mammals. I'm Chenhe, and this is Yves. I'm Yves. And this is our project. We did this. We called it White Mountain, Black Water. This is simply, you drop down the water, and make a song. [Teacher] That is the most magical thing ever. What is the substance that you're dripping? [Chenhe] That's water. Ink water. [Teacher] Ink water. [Chenhe] Just ink and water, yeah. This is an acrylic sheet, and then we painted it with waterresistant spray, so that's why the water is behaving like that. [Teacher] How do you do the sensing? That's the camera. [Teacher] The camera! [Chenhe] Yeah. My name is Yiyao, and this is my physics project called Life in a Nutshell. There is two parts. The first part is a series of sculptures. They have 13 from birth to death as a cycle. The second part is an interactive installation. People can interact with it, and they need to make a pose exactly like what the sculpture shows, and then they will become part of the character to experience different stages of life. (peaceful electronic music) I'm Bora Aydingtug. This is Feedback Mirror. Made in processing. It's using the letter I to visualize the camera image. It's also measuring the overall image to create some sort of feedback. There are two different angles. One is the angle that's mapped to the brightness of the camera image. The other one is the brightness data of the overall image. So, if the elements started touching each other, they start doing these recursive patterns. It's called I Can't Breathe. It's a homage piece to Eric Gardner's last words in the documentation of how he died. It's a data visualization piece of black deaths at the hand of police brutality. Essentially what happens is this screen goes through the days of a calendar year, and on a day where there were no documented deaths of black lives, the lungs breath gently. On a day where, as we're witnessing right now, somebody lost their life A person of color lost their life to the hand of an officer. The calendar pauses. The lungs completely deflate, and shrivel, and crunch. Then very, very slowly reinflate before the calendar moves to the next day. That continues over the course of, in this iteration, one month, accounting for 27 deaths. But, I actually have a data set that accounts for every day between now, moving backwards to January 2013, which is accumulative of 1,742 deaths, 80% of which have had no judicial investigation, and 73% which were unarmed. My next iteration will hopefully account for that entire data set. It takes two hours just to witness January 2018 alone. That's what I have today. Hi! My name is Jim Schmitz, and this is my project, it's my thesis project at ITP. My thesis is about applying a style transfer to 360 imagery. A style transfer is a computational technique where you can reimagine a photograph in the style of a painting. Using images from Google Street View, I am able to create art that forms a connection That inspires a viewer to connect with the actual locations. The neat thing about this is that the style is even and continuous. There are no seams. Which is different from the way that other style transfers end up when they're applied to 360 imagery. (happy jazzy music) My name is Stefan. Stefan Skripak. So what you're looking at is a USB device that is connected That reacts to your browser usage, your internet usage. If you visit a bandwidthheavy website, it will switch from what it's in now, which is cooling mode, which is actually cooling the inside to heating. When you What's in here is actually an iceberg shaped ice cube. So, when you switch to heating mode, it dramatically increases the speed at which the iceberg melts. Once enough of it has melted, it will actually trigger a simulated short circuit, which leads to all the monitors shutting off, and prevents you from using the device any further. Hi! My name is Yang and I'm a secondyear student. I'm graduating, and this is my thesis project. It's called Magical Pencil. The idea is, whatever you draw in this game becomes real. You don't need to find an item when you need it. Whenever you need something, you just draw it. You can use it solve puzzles on your journey. Let's see like, you can drive a van. Yeah, let's drive. So, keep going. [Person OffScreen] Yeah! [Yang] Yeah! My name's Lauren Race. I'm a designer and I used participatory design with five lowvision and blind designers and makers to convert all the material that's used to teach physical computing at ITP to tactile. These are the original symbols from the pcomp site. I printed them out, and I ran them through what's called a SwellForm machine, which reacts to carbon and black ink, causing it to puff up. This is the 11th iteration of each symbol using participatory design. What happened after that was it became like a funnel. So, if somebody needed a schematic that was tactile, they'd come to me. And I realized I was the only one making them, so what I did was I created a style guide with templates so teachers and students and designers can come in and use the templates to make their own tactile schematic. My name is Tinayi, and this is a project for a team of three. Helen and Chunhan, they're also in this project. We're making a music box for our children specifically age from four to six. We just want to deliver a very playful experience to encourage them to be more interested with musicmaking, and also maybe become DJ or composer when they're young. (flutelike music) My name is Ada. This project is called Sonic Cubes. This is an instrument A set of instruments I made for a final performance I did for this class sound and space using a 17 speaker setup. (electronic music changing with block configuration) (calm jazzy music) My name is Kemi. Adekemi Sijuwade. I have a multimodal thumb piano that you can play in the browser live several ways. Uses facial recognition to allow you to play. The other way of playing is with a touch screen. My name is Billy Bennett and I have a p5 sketch with some particles which you may recognize from the Nature of Code series. (people laughing) But, yeah, I rigged up this musical wand to play music as you swing it across, of Hailu Mergia, who's an Ethiopian jazz artist. He has this kind of rolling right hand style in his music that I try to mimic with this wand, so you don't skip any notes. I'm Ella! Nice to meet you guys. I'm graduating this year, and this is my thesis project, which is called Breath We Live. This is a breathing meditation for one to two person, in a very dark and immersive studio. The purpose of this is to allow people to practice their breathing meditation and how this breathing as a primary note is linked to nature and environment. That we always notice that our breathings were part of the nature. But we don't see it right away. So, I wanna use breathing as a part of a way to allow people to understand their breathing meditation activity, and also understand that these small changes of breathings affecting the environment in a more impactful way. I'm Casey Conchinha, and this is p5.js Shaders. I worked on it with my partner Louise Lessel. It's essentially a collection of examples of shaders in p5 that are basically And a guide to basically show people what they can do with shaders in p5. Why they'd wanna use the shaders in p5 versus your load pixels function. I have them all running in my browser, and it's not slowing down at all. They're very performative, which is one of the main reasons why you'd wanna use them. My name is Anna. I'm a firstyear. My project is Apron Video Controller. 'Cause when I'm cooking, I'm usually watching a YouTube video, but I don't wanna touch my iPad with my greasy hand, so if I'm wearing this apron, I don't need to touch it. I can control video with this apron. Playing the video. And then pause, play, whatever I want. Then if I miss some part, I can go back, backward. Also, I can control the volume, like a zipper. Louder. And then quieter. Everybody, I'm Elizabeth. I worked on a project where I looked for people in the Library of Congress who are featured in the New York Times as overlooked obituary feature. I put together a data set of these 16 people, who are about half the people who have been recently given obituaries, only for the first time. Some people You might be surprised that they didn't receive an obituary at the time they died. The questions down here correspond to the buttons that you can press to find out, like, are they in the Library of Congress at all? Do they have a name authority file? Do they have a subject heading? Hi, everyone! My name's Chelsea Chen. This is my project. I called it Now You Are In The Conversation. The reason why I made it is because I'm so tired about people taking photos in museums and exhibitions. Sometimes they really don't care about the artwork itself. They only wanted to pose on Instagram. So, I made a very Instagrammable piece. When you're trying to take a photo of it, it stops. It stopped. It stopped. And when you put your phone down... I'm James Hosken. This is 100 Days of Spaceships. The class was 100 days of making, which was about iterating on a theme. So, for 100 days, each day, you have to make something new. Part of the class is about trying to break free from the chains of perfectionism. It doesn't matter if it's good or not. You just have to post it. Another part of the class was posting it publicly. This was all on Instagram. Each of these posters represents two days of spaceship making. The first day was modeling a spaceship, and the second was animating the spaceship. My name is Sukanya, and this is a collaboration with Nick, who is run away right now. It's a project surveillance. It's essentially a router. The router leaks liquid as data is leaking to third parties as you browse the internet. We go to Buzzfeed for example. These are the sort of domains it's hitting, which are not Buzzfeed. These are third parties. As you can see, there's this liquid that starts running. It's basically just to shed light on the fact that there's this whole industry going around on surveillance for profit, and sort of tracking your behavior online, and creating these profiles of you. (calm jazzy music) This is a locationtracking / surveillance project. The goal is to identify devices, and see where they are on the floor. What we're doing is, we're basically scanning the NYU wifi, and looking at different access points, and seeing who's connected to which access point. If we know who's connected to which access point, we kind of know, in that radius where the devices are located. We used a monitor mode wireless adapter with huge antennas, and a thing called Aircrack. It's an opensource software which runs on a Linux machine, which is used for penetration testing. My name is Yuguang, and my project is called Cats. It is my experiment on generate of film completely using AI. This is the very, very first step of doing that. What you're seeing now is my first experiment in using a newer network to combine human portraits with different things that are ubiquitous in our lives. What you see at the top is include human portrait mixed with cat emojis, donuts, power outlet, and ripped jeans. The video is showing how we can do animations for cat and human portrait mixtures. I'm Jiwon. I'm Anna. This is a small 'zine that we made about the introduction to surveillance technologies. It's basically for the general audience, so anyone can understand it. It's basically going through something as simple as a Google search. So, what happens in the internet ecosystem when you type something in Google, and how, basically, the internet works. Also, the repercussions of it. How you can be tracked. What cookies are. And basically just being more aware about your privacy on the internet. My name is Jacque Liu, and I created a project called Eniac Girlz Program and Pretend. What it is is a speculative play set for girls to get them interested in programming. The play set also references the history of inequality surrounding women and computing. The toy is meant to evoke the motions of being a programmer, and the first electronic computer, the Eniac. Basically, what this is, is um So as you may or may not know, World Pride is happening at the end of June, and it is for the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall Riots. Basically, that was a huge It was a little bar fight, or very famous thing that happened that basically launched the Gay Civil Rights, the LGBT Civil Rights Movement in New York. The arch in Washington Square Park was built in 1892 for the commemoration of President Washington. Basically, it was there to celebrate the founding fathers on the centennial anniversary of his inauguration. On the half centennial anniversary of the LGBT Civil Rights start, what better way than to commemorate the founding mothers and fathers of the movement. Hi. My name is Veronica Alfaro I'm Adrian Bautista. I'm Jingyi Wen And we still have two other group members. What you're gonna be doing, is you're gonna be joining the CRISPR Detective Unit today. Your goal is to find members of the Metastasis Mafia. These are the genes that cause cancer cells to metastasize and spread throughout the body. Welcome to your first mission. This is the preCRISPR era, where genetic research was a little bit cumbersome, not always accurate, not always the most efficient. To illustrate that point, what we're going to be doing here is using your sense of touch. You're going to be trying to find the bad genes. The ones that cause metastasis. As you can see, it's a little cumbersome. It's a little frustrating. And that's what editing DNA was like preCRISPR. It wasn't always the best. Detectives, you will come back to now. And you have the help of CRISPR technology. Your job will be much easier, and much faster. (machine beeping and speaking) (happy jazzy music)