(whistle blowing) Hello. It's been another year. It's close to the end of 2018. Earlier this week was the ITP/IMA end of semester show. ITP and IMA are a graduate and undergraduate program here at Tisch School of the Arts New York University. So many students made so many amazing and wonderful projects. There's a long, 2 1/2 hour livestream of me wandering around the entire thing, that you can watch. But what you're about to see is a highlight reel of a bunch of those projects. Special thank you to Jenny Lim for holding the camera during this long, livestream. And also to Matthhieu Blanchette for always doing such a wonderful job editing stuff on the coding train. Happy Holidays. Happy New Year. See ya in 2019. (bossa nova music) My name is Tushar. I'm from India and this is a voice synthesizer which makes music from your voice. And it's not a normal synth that you can play music on. You sort of collaborate with the synth. And you say okay, make me some music using these three or four notes and then the synth gives you what it feel like today. So, I record my voice. (Tushar humming) And then. (synthesizer music) So, there's an element of my voice in there. There's also a synth. It's called the Vo5ynth, voice and synth set together. And, of course, the drums is drums, that's not from my voice. (synthesizer music) I'm Ashley Lewis. I made Lost and Found Bots. They're these little robots that feel lost without one another. And when you connect their hands, they feel found. So, these are them. So, you can see they're little faces say lost. And then when you connect their hands. You have to bring them really close like they're hugging. And then they'll feel found. But it's a prototype for a bigger project. I want a little robot society Uh huh. Where there are like, 10, and you can connect their hands in duos or trios to find out what their rules of their society are. And how they operate socially. My name is Stefan. My partner is Julia Rich. Unfortunately, they are not here right now but I can do my best to explain on my own. It's an interactive alien garden. So, the idea is that it's sort of a discovery experience. So, users will come and touch things. It's very tactile. And just discover different interactions. I'm Jenny. I'm from Taiwan. And my background's UX designer. I'm Morgan, I'm from Reno, Nevada. And my background's electrical engineering. And this is called Reverie Field. It's kind of a self reflection experience where the user's prompted to think about a memory and the emotions associated with that memory. And then through, they use the hand panel. Kind of transcend those emotions and the memory into lights and manipulate the lights accordingly. [Woman] You are now entering a safe and calming space. Think of a memory that has been on your mind lately. Please, take a moment to focus on it. (piano music) My name is Guillermo Montecinos and this project is a collaboration with Sofia Suazo. We built an AR and AI theremin that you can play but it is not here and you can't see it and you can't touch it. But you can also play it. (theremin music) So, this is, like, a two person. It's kind of interactive because the person there is playing it and listen to the theremin and the other one can see the theremin and listen to the playing. My name is Jaekook. And this is project called Focus Helper. This is based on the idea that how to reduce misunderstanding in conversation. So, I want to make people really private space. So, just focus on their opponents. So, on this side of this product it has a magnifying glass and mics. And if you're close to your person it focus on their face and then it magnify their faces. And you can hear more clearly the voice of the partner or opponent. (bossa nova music) Hello, I'm Eva. I'm a first year at ITP. I created a project about dyslexia. So, I wanted to create a project that would bring up the frustrations that dyslexics face while learning a language. So, I created an alphabet and are having people read and write in this language that I made. Over the headphones it'll say the letter that you're scanning and so, you can kind of decode the language. And then when you're ready you can scan in the write section and you can write any word that you want. My name is Marcella. I'm from Brazil. My project is called IMERSA. It's a sculpture that builds itself when you're there with it for it to happen. Basically, I was thinking about my relationship with, like, coming here and everything that happened. Having to connect with a lot of people and especially after what's happening in my country. How hard it was for me to try to talk to people about it. And try to create some empathy or something. So, yeah, that's basically it. Hi, I'm Jasper from China. Our project is called Pinning Puppets. We are trying to show the relationship between people and smartphones. I'll put our phone here. They will all be attracted by our smartphone. And they keep moving their heads up and down. We are doing a measure for showing the relationship between people and smartphone. You see puppet moving their heads up and down. Just like, be constantly checking the message from our smartphone. And once you remove the phone they go back to normal life. Just like this. Hi, I'm Rebecca. Fluto is a life sized flute. And when you blow into your phone, the balls in the flutes go up. If you talk into the microphone really loudly or you blow, then they go up. Oh, I'm Joe Baker. This is my fan. I was inspired by the Japanese folding fans. So, I decided just to make a really large one. And make it express itself through, you know, visuals and communicate with, you know, digital world. Hi, I'm Emily. I'm from Los Angeles. This is an interactive about how we can power our days using solar cell. And it tries to also detail some of the complexities of that process. So, this is the intro page but we can power our days. And there are four different modules that people can experience. And one of the complexities is the voltage generated. It's the voltage that can be generated from the solar panels. And you can see the relation between the position of the house and the angle of the light and how that makes a difference. My name is Sukanya and the project is called merry go sound. So, there's eight spindles and these discs which have a sort of pattern on them, and each spindle is assigned a different sound. So, as you place the discs and try different combinations you can generate different melodies and different patterns and rhythms. I'm Sarah. I'm from Boston or Brookline. I'm Apoorva, I'm from Chicago. Our project is an interactive solar system. And what you would do is you would first, you have your little rocket ship. And you can select any planet that you want to look at. And then you pick up this little controller. And then move it around and that will kind of [Reporter] Can we try one? [Sarah] Yeah, sure, go ahead, yeah. And then that will control the rotation of the planet. [Reporter] It's working so well. [Sarah] Yeah. I'm Xiaotong from China and this is my project. This is a sound instrument. And we can trigger some. And also change the pitch at the same time. Like, you can see the water's decreased. (tapping on glass) The pitch will be different. I'm Sachiko Nakajima from Japan. I'm first year ITP student. This is my ICM project. So, you can make paintings via sound. So, like a ringing here. (bells ringing) Something like this, or. (seeds rattling) So, different timbre generates different color. And the size of the paint is based on that amplitude. (bossa nova music) Hi, my name's Effy. And I'm showing my NIME, new interface for music expression class project. My music instrument is called the War Fan. And then is a human body scale folding fan that opens up in two directions. I'm going to show you. This is one direction. This is the other direction. [Reporter] Wow. And then with the sensors attached to it there's accelerometer and a contact mic. It's picking up acoustic sound and then sending signals to the computer and then making different sound effects and synthesized music. I'm Billy Bennett. And this is the Sand Ocean, as you said. So, I basically suspended sand above a speaker. And the speaker vibrates the air which moves the sand in interesting patterns and stuff. And different notes will make it move more or less depending on how it resonates. Low notes move the sand more, so. Wow. Yeah. [Reporter] That's amazing. I'm Atharva. Hi, I'm Arnab. Lilian. Alright, so what did you make? We made this thing which is The mystery machine. It's a set of six or seven puzzles depending on how you play it. And there's a back story to it about cat videos. So, there's a evil guy, Orion, who's created this virus to destroy all cat videos on the internet. And we have a friend, Mitchell Guardsky who wrote the antivirus to that to save all the cat videos inside this machine. So, we want to plug the machine in, solve all of the puzzles and make sure we have cat videos for the internet. Hi, my name is Alvin and this is a project that I did. And the name of it is called Space between us. It's a lighting installation. And it's composed of two separate screens on each side. And also what I was saying on both side they're have one side as a window and the other side as a mirror. Hey, my name is Hayk. This project called the Invisible Orchestra. We made this with my colleague Brent. So, this is actually a touchless musical instrument which is designed for performing artists to incorporate this with their performances. So, it basically creates music with your body movement and your gestures. (synthesizer music) (bossa nova music)