Oh, I think I'm live. [Jenny] It's Yes. I'm live, talking into a microphone, that is not a microphone that actually does anything for you. Hello, I'm just looking here at the Slack Channel. Please, if you are watching this right now, and you can hear me, and you can see me, oh. [Echo Voiceover] Are watching this. Then just give me some, everything's fine, just put some like thumbs up emojis or whatever. It's especially [Jenny] We're live. I got a feedback. Okay. [Jenny] Hi, hi. So I'm in my office here at, where am I? I'm at the Tisch School of the Arts, which is part of New York University, which is in New York City. And this is the ITP and the IMA program. So ITP is a two years masters program. It's been around for almost 40 years. This October will be the 40th anniversary, or the 40th annual year, whatever. It's been 40 years. But the IMA program has been around for oh, carry the one, three months, two months, I don't know. Very little time. So we're going to see some grad student interesting, fun, creative, wacky, meaningful, interactive projects. And we will also possibly see some undergraduate ones. So I think, from what I can tell, I'm getting only thumbs up, things are working. Let's just look at this to make sure everything is recording. So this is back, so just so you know, this thing that I'm holding here is backup audio. The audio that's live streaming, is coming from a mic that is mounted on top of the camera, which Jenny is holding. You can't. [Jenny] Hi. I think you can flip the camera, scare 'em, and just say hi. [Jenny] No. And so hopefully that's going to be a better audio experience for the live stream. But after the live stream finishes, we will also make a edited version of a highlight of a bunch of projects, and have this backup audio to work with as well. Okay, so let's move on. First, I want to show off this beautiful poster. [Jenny] Wow. This is by Cody Train. This fortunately got a longer cable. Cody Train viewer, a sign of the tiger. This is a times table visualization, which I think is based on a mathologer, mathalogger, mathaloger. How do you say that video? YouTube video, which is one of my favorite YouTube channels. Great work Simon. Okay let's go, let's go into the foyer. (laughing) Here, you can walk out and start going towards the middle. I don't have to be in the shot constantly. [Jenny] Okay. I'm just walking right through. And let's go find some projects to look at with, right? [Jenny] Yes. Okay. Look, we can start right here. Can we start with, oh boy. (laughing) It's okay, everything's fine. [Jenny] Oh, should I photograph you while you Yeah, microphone disaster. It's was going so well I had so many different microphones. Hold on. Let's, let me fix this here. This goes in. [Eva] I would be helpful, 'cause I don't know how it works. All right. Here we go. All right, so let me just check what's going on here. So this is recording. And this is recording. [Jenny] Someone says, don't destroy the room, dude. Then this here. So maybe what I'll do, is I'm actually, maybe I'll just put this in my pocket. So the ambient recording is not going to be. But we have plenty of good ambient recording from that one. Okay, let's, this is the ambient. Everything is ambient, okay. (chattering in background) And let's just, oh wait, I couldn't. Let's turn it around so we can see if there's red lights. This is the, this is the best way to start the live stream. Yeah right, before, oh that jeans are very thick. Let's see if there's red light, a red light there, so the battery's still working. Things are falling. It's just like a new piece of jewelry that I'm going to wear. All right, let's try this again. Okay, so Okay. tell us your, I'm going to come stand over here. Okay. Tell us your name. Hi. Tell us a little bit about the project. Okay. Usually, this is the first one we're doing, so we're trying to get this figured out. The way that we're going to work this, everybody watching is, first we're going to interview. So you get like the two or three sentence summary. Got it. And then we will go and actually shoot some video of the footage. We'll do this separately, because it's nice to have a separate piece, in case people aren't together later. Got it. Okay. Okay, hello, I'm Eva. I'm a first year at ITB, and I created a project about dyslexia. So I wanted to create a project that would bring up the frustrations that dyslexics face while learning a language. So I created an alphabet, and it had, I'm having people read and write in this language that I made. Awesome, should I try it? You can. Or is it best if you demonstrate it? Like how? You can try it. So you put on the headphones. Unfortunately, maybe you can unplug it if you're going to. If you want to unplug it, just that I always go on here under the audio. Yeah, On that tray. If that's a big thing to do then, you don't have to. Let's see though. So when you scan a coin, I don't know how to do the audio right now. Yeah, you might have to clip the headphones in. Oops. So when you scan a coin, over the headphones it'll say the letter that you're scanning. And so you can kind of decode the language. And then when you're ready, you can scan in the right section, and you can write any word that you want. And then these are words that previous people have written. So I'm just doing this randomly. Yes. But the idea is that I would learn this. Yeah, yeah. And I would actually be able to. And then you can submit. Submit. And so then your word is there, and then previous people's words are there. So the idea is that it's kind of frustrating, and you have to really learn to match the sounds learning with the symbols. Yeah. And that kind of replicates a dyslexic's experience when you're ready. I'm just going to, I'm going to do this. I have no idea if this is going to do anything. Okay. But I'm going to put this microphone in here. It's probably a terrible idea. (chattering in background) Awesome, thank you. Great job. Thank you. Okay. Let's see. Let's go into this room. We might as well kind of. We could come back. [Jenny] Yeah. There's just letting. You guys are in now. (chattering in background) Can we try this? Yes. Oh, you're documenting right now. You can, yeah, after I can. All right. All right. Sure, go ahead, Can you, no, come over here will you? This is just a set. So. Thanks (mumbling) Then it's dark in here, but maybe can you first say your name? And this is live TV right now. Yeah, all right. Yeah, I'm good, okay, cool. So, tell us your name. Hi. And tell us just a few sentences about your project. And we'll try it, and get the footage of it. All right, yeah. Hi, I'm Louise, and this is Sid. And we built this laser harp. (background chatter) Yeah, it's two concentric circles. And in time, it's going to allow you to play satellites data. So like the positions and sonification. Right now, it's just playing the Oh, wait, wait, wait. I don't, I'm, tell me, explain to me the thing about playing satellite data. Yeah. I didn't realize this yesterday, when (mumbling). No, okay, so. How does that work? That's why it has that shape. So it's like inspiration from the astrol, astrology instruments in the 16th century. And it's for a new project called horn canopy. It's a music project that my friend is doing. But anyways, and so this is going to be an instrument he's going to be playing with live streaming satellite data. So there's a lot of space debris. So like the debris is going to probably determine the amount of noise then the sound. Wow. So we're going to take live data into it, and then play it. Cool. All right, do you want to demonstrate it for us? Yes, so basically these are strings apparently. I should just turn on. (chattering in background) Alright, it should be on now. Yep. So here we've got the strings. (eerie music) (chattering in background) And these are my different instruments. So when ever I like, pick one of these, I'll change, I'll change the tune then. (melodic music) Yeah, and then you know, it also does reverb. Oh. (laughing) That's great. (chattering in background) It's really beautiful. Thank you. Sid, do you have anything you want to add? [Sid] Well, no. (laughing) Congratulations, great job. Thank you so much for visiting. Bye. And that's for everybody. Yeah. For real, for real? Yes. Yeah. Okay. So. Now that I'm not eating a sandwich. All right, so just say your name, and two couple sentences about what is it you make. Yeah, my name is Lydia. This is sort of an abstract data visualization. Each cube represents a different neighborhood in Chicago. And it's displaying a few different data sets. And with the sliders, you can play around and kind of emphasize different data, and see how it changes the outcome of what you're lookin' at. Awesome, can you demonstrate it for us? Yeah. We'll get some closer up shots of it. Yeah, so right now I'm changing the blue squares. These are, this is showing the number of schools in each neighborhood. So I'm really emphasizing that. And I'm going to take away grocery stores, and then I'll add vacant houses and the unemployment rate. So you can see what that looks like in each neighborhood. And then I can also redraw it to have a different configuration, and see how that sort of changes the picture. [Male] The sliders more with your fingers, so. Yeah. And do, I, this scale seems like a really interesting question around this. So obviously you're limited by what you can do with Yeah. the show here. But do you have sort of imagine if you could, there were no limitations like how you would want to build this? Well this is, so there's 77 neighborhoods in Chicago, and this is just showing five of them. So it'd be really cool to have 77 cubes. Right. And then I'd also like to, this is kind of, this is motivated by in data analysis like, and machine learning, like assigning different weights to different data. Right. Or like different variables, and how that really changes the, your outcome of your analysis. And so I'd like to have kind of like another sort of variable that you can change. So like if you configure the sliders this way, then it, the background color, or some other factor changes so you can kind of see, see more of the outcome Right. of what you've done here. And has anybody from Chicago come to the show? Yeah, a few people. Yeah. Yeah, they're tryin' to guess the neighborhoods. Neighborhoods. [Both] Yeah. Did they, was anybody able to get it? No, not really. Not really. I mean, yeah, it's really hard to tell, Yeah. yeah. Cool, awesome. Yeah. Great job. Thank you. Sure. Thanks. Hey, live stream watchers, Okay. Dan is not holding the Zoom recorder, because he's using a lavalier microphone, and an external microphone. Yeah. [Jenny] So please stop writing that he should hold the Zoom recorder. Yes, look, look, see, look. I've got four different microphones going right now, four. It's the, that's the world record for the number of microphones I've ever used at once. Okay, just kidding. All right, are you ready to demonstrate this now? Ah definitely. Okay, so if you could just give us, say your name. Is this a collaboration? Yes. It is. Oh, so you both of you come over here. Yeah. And tell us your names, and where you're from, and a few sentences about what you made. And then we'll get some footage of you playing around with it, or me, or whatever. Sure. I guess I'll do, okay, go ahead. Oh, my name is Dana. I'm from, originally from Tel Aviv, Israel. And this is my first year here, and. I'm Matt Ross. I'm from Long Island, and I live here in New York. And we're first years here at ITP. And we decided to do a collaboration in a physical community class. And this is our reflected landscape. Yes. It's sort of just and then come. Reflected landscapes is a sound and light instrument collaboration sequencer sampler insert musical. The term here, the idea is, we wanted to give people the ability to control the energy that kind of comes when a sound gets delayed or echoed. And so each one of these sliders controls a distinct color and sound. And so, or as, please. Cool. I'll turn on the bully. So turn on Yeah, turn on the please. So as you can see, as I move a slider to the middle of the bank, a light and a color starts emanating from here. So you have the epicenter of the sound, and it gets emitted from where it started. And you have the ability to kind of move it around. To like little arrows. Yes. And they are, exactly arrows. They are. They're little arrows. Didn't notice that yesterday. No, our entire purpose was sometimes to create collisions between two arrows. So now there is an arrow and a collision. And now there is a third one. Ah, a little separate circle. Exactly. And you can always break those collisions and go back to create new ones, if you want to. Each time that a collision occur, the sound is being changed to maybe a greater sound or a better feedback. And yeah. We spent a lot of time thinking about the colors. Hotel. How to get out from the LED Right. regular RGB mode. So it was also a journey to understand like how to create this compelling peach like the color, and but yeah. Yeah, I think for this piece, one of the biggest things, a lot of times visuals are kind of the representation of sound. But we want to kind of like have this idea where here's a visual communication. It's a visual metaphor of this thing that's used in music so much, echo delay. And what if we were able to like kind of create this metaphor, that made it kind of really obvious to people how this thing, or how this mode of recompution works. It's awesome. So, it's pretty convenient. It's pretty simple. Please, please enjoy it. Great job. (slow instrumental music) Great job you guys. [Both] Thank you. Okay, oh hello. Hello to you too. Will you tell us your name? And where you're from, and a few sentences about your project? And then we'll get some footage of it afterwards. Okay, my name is Marcela. I'm from Brazil. And well my project is called Imersa. It's culture that builds itself when you're there with it for it to happen. Basically I was thinking about my relationship with like coming here, and everything that happened. Having to connect with a lot of people, and especially after what's happening in my country, how hard it was for me to try to talk to people about it, and try to create some empathy or something. So yeah, that's basically it. If I may? So yeah, you just look into, you could. This? Oh, you don't need this. But yeah, you just look from here. Because. Oh wow. You have to be here. You have to be in here. I'm meant to be in this. Yeah. And then, yeah. (chattering in background) Can you see inside that? Am I going to be able to do this? You should, yeah. Oh, I moved from it. I made that happen. I'll come back. (chattering in background) (soft melodic music) It's really beautiful. Did you make that specific choice to have it, like move in these like very sharp steps? Or because it seems very different than the quality of having some movement, sort of smoothly off it somehow. That's (mumbling). Yeah, actually that was kind of an accident. Yeah. Because, I didn't have the motors that I wanted to have. And that was the way that I figured out how to do it. But I could make it less in steps. Yeah. But I had good feedback of people saying, even like that they were, a lot of people were just like, Yes. oh my god. And what I'm talking about Right. is not something that is only beautiful and amazing. Yeah, right. So It's less comfortable that way. Yeah. So it kind of works, even though the quality of the, you know the sort of, the sparkly nature of it, is very sort of like soothing and meditative, and the sounds, but yet it's kind of harsh as it moves. I think that does help it. Awesome. So great job. Okay. Hello. Hello. All right, so can you first, maybe don't turn it on yet. Sure. Maybe we should make that be a surprise. If you could just tell me your name, and a few sentences about your project, and where you're from. Okay. The people like to know. My name is Assel Dmitriyeva, I'm from Kazakhstan. And this project is called the field be ready. Data visualization reimagined. And I wanted to get away from the 2D usual screens, and to have the spacial data being visualized spatially in 3D space. So that's what I came up with. Okay, let's make sure we get a shot of it before you turn it on. And then, you can go for it. I wonder what this will pick up at the refresh rate Tah dah. on the camera. So can you describe just what, how this is connected to the data? Or it's, maybe it's not yet, that what you're imagining it for? How you imagine how it connects to the data? Yeah, so right now for the demonstration that this can be shown, in order to attract more people, I have decided to show the full spectrum of the colors it represents of that globe, so that people can see what is possible to be. Yeah. And children get attracted as well, when they see different colors being changing. In the future, I want there to be data wirelessly, so that again, it'll create different images that people have already taken, and converted it to data, originally from itself. Great job, it's wonderful. Thank you. Okay, how you doin' there Jen, you okay? [Jenny] Good, good, good. But you need to take a break, we can take a break. [Jenny] Everyone's still mad about the Zoom recorder. Oh wow. [Jenny] Guys, pull it with the Zoom recorder. I hope there's some moderators in the chat, in the. Actually, let me double check to make sure this is still going. 'Cause I put it in my pocket, and. Okay, I see this is recording. I'm getting laugh mic. I'm getting laugh mic. Okay, so I think we're good. Go ahead. [Jenny] Fixed. Okay, ah I didn't see Bora?. He's not, Bora is now on a different project. All right, we'll go this way I guess. All right. Let's go over here, 'cause I don't know. [Both] Hey. I really love this project. Thank you. This is both of you, yes? [Male] Yes. Yeah, so did, I don't want to interrupt. Let's come look at this, and we'll come right back. 'Cause I don't, actually didn't get to see this one yesterday. Oh my goodness, can you get, is this your project? Yes. And who are all, can you tell us your name? And a few sentences about it. Okay, my name is Jaekook. And this a project called the focus helper. It's based on the idea that how to reduce a misunderstanding in conversation. So I want to make people a really private space, so it just focused on their opponents. So inside of this product, it has a magnifying lens and mics. And if you're close to your person, it focus on their face, and that he may find their faces. And you can hear more clearly the voice of the partner or opponent. Yes, amazing. Thank you. I don't know if you want to try to like. I don't want to interrupt what they're doing in there. Nancy's in there right now. Oh, Nancy's in there. Oh, we can interrupt Nancy. (chattering in background) Can you describe what's going on in there? Nancy, can you hear me? Yeah, I can. Oh, can you describe what's going on in there? It's nuts, even I can, I'm having Are you a private conversation. Oh sorry, I've interrupted. I've defeated the whole purpose of this project. Yeah, so this is kind of like, you know the corner of silence? Uhhuh, yeah. This is kind of like the corner of silence. All right, but are you, do see anything? Yeah, you should try it. Okay, I definitely will. Can you try it and do this? I suppose. All right, it's, Nancy you should stay. I should stay? Yeah. You should stay. We're going to put us back together. Okay, so then it was a partition put in there to help yourself recognize. I don't really No You'd ruin my purpose of this project, sincerely. Oh no. I can use this, like Simon should. Okay. Well no wonder you couldn't hear me, you're wearing headphones. That's right. All right. It's tricky getting in. Don't, don't. Yeah. You're going to be tempted to, no, no, no. First clear your head. Careful, you got to clear your head. Uh. You in yet? First head, and then the knee. (laughing) There you go. Oh, okay. Okay, I'm now in the focus chamber. [Jenny] Oh man. And I can hear Nancy. (muffled talking) And there's a magnifying lens. Your face is Yeah. very large. I can hear what's said. Okay. And that's not happening. To make them loose. (muffled talking) When your connected, unfortunately people can't hear you. I'm going to put my, I'm going to put this microphone up by the headphones. But you should talk in this (muffled talking). I'm live. What happens at, so now the magnifying lens is movable. (chattering in background) [Jenny] Can you see from above? What happens if I press this button? (chattering in background) (muffled talking inside machine) This is probably not great for the live stream of viewers. (muffled talking inside machine) You should just go like. You can get down like I did. If you want to get out slowly. Yes. (muffled talking) [Jenny] You did. That's entertainment. Wahoo. How was the experience? That was very intense. What is the I forgot, I forgot it was live Yeah, no it's okay. (laughing) We're good. I want to know what the button does. But I'm going to let Nancy, could get out of there. And we're going to come over here. Oh, what happened to your partner? SJ! Come on over. Okay, so tell us your name, and a few sentences about your project. All right, so my name is SJ. This project is called islands of sound. So it's an interface where you can tap on these objects to mix different ambient sound. So the way to personal experience it is to wear the headphones. And then once you tap on this object, it'll put in a different sound, and you can tap them again to turn them off. You can adjust the volume by putting it on to this bar. Turn down the volume by putting it on this bar. And just explore how different combination of sound can help. Where did you get the idea for this project? Learning to, yeah, my name's Ellie, and our idea basically is to like play with the sounds of like the nature, and of artificial materials. So we chose four sounds reflecting the properties of those objects. Two of them are natural materials, and the other two are artificial materials. And we try to build a connection between human, like the physical environment that we are living in, and the nature of the world. So that's the idea. Yeah. I love the choices you made for these different. I don't, to call them buttons feels wrong. And the way they're buttons, 'cause you're touching them. But it's like, it's a really nice progression, sort of they're each so distinct in their own way. It's beautiful. Thank you. And you did an excellent job masking these trajectories. Talked about this yesterday. Yeah. You can barely, it just feels very organic actually. Awesome. Thank you. Okay, great job. Okay, oh, is this the fingerprints? Yeah, the fingerprints. All right, let's try the fingerprint. Great, do you want to try the fingerprint? Okay, sure. Okay, so first tell us your name. Oh hi. Where you're from, and a couple sentences about your project. Okay, my name's Shiyu. I'm Chinese from China. So my project's about like the fingerprint visualization and sonification. So basically, a user, when they put the fingerprint on it, the finger on this devices. And then this fingerprint would be show up by visualize like a star in galaxy of a screen. And you'll be able to move it and check your fingerprint, the sound will coming out. So it's basically like this. Cool, okay, so can we try it? Yeah, sure, definitely go ahead. Yeah, yeah. Oh, oh, I don't. Yes. I do it here. It's a touchscreen, so. Oh, right. Yeah, you can Okay. So first of all, Okay. you need to put your finger right here. Oh, okay. But I don't press start first? Just make fingerprint first. Okay. Then. It's reading my fingerprint. Okay. Right, and then you can press start. You can press start. Oh, just. Oh, okay, I'm going to wear the headphones. Yeah, I have one. So many projects have headphones, which makes it very hard for people watching to experience. But I will tell you what I'm hearing. Okay. Start. Just put a star, and then it'll start playing. There'll be a sound. I'm hearing some beautiful like wind chime like sounds. (chattering in background) It's the end. (chattering in background) Okay, I'm going to press start. And this is your, and you're able to just move it. Yes, like, the only the fingerprint area, yes. The instrument is karimba. It's an African instrument that usually played by, yeah, it usually played by thumb, African instrument. So that's why I use a karimba to be like make sounds. Can I press next? Yes. (chattering in background) There will be like a narrating things. (chattering in background) Yes, I definitely want to join the cosmos. And then your fingerprint will be like a star (background noise drowns out speaker). And so that, this is all the other people's fingerprints. Yes. That's wonderful. Thank you so much. Beautiful work. Yes. Great job. Thank you so much. Congrats. Okay, oh we ought to look at this fan thing. (chattering in background) Are you accepting visitors? Yeah. Can I ask you to introduce yourself, and tell us about this beautiful fan? Okay. Hi. Oh, I'm Joe Baker. And this is my fan. I was inspired by the Japanese folding fans. So I decided just to make a really large one, and make it express itself through visuals, and communicate with, you know, in a world. Business man is come from, so yeah, the business man, a business fan comes from the business man that had a fan that first inspired that idea. It's so beautiful and soothing. I almost feel like, I mean I love how, these graphics are wonderful, and it's so, they're connected in a really interesting way. But I almost feel like I just want to be in a room with nothing else. Get rid of the live stream show, get rid of the screens, and just like, Lay out. Just meditate with the fan back and forth. Yeah, yeah, that was the idea Yeah. to have a very like calming motion to it. Yeah. Did you, is this like, did you try different speeds, and this one felt right, or? Well this one's the smoothest one I can get on its own. Before, it was very jerky. Uhhuh, yeah. And it was just like kind of like. Yeah. So I wanted to make it more, as natural as possible, Right. without me Right. having to control it myself. Yeah. Yeah. And smooth is the definition. (chattering in background) It's us and Maya. And Maya? Yes. Okay, all right. All right, so say your name and where you're from, then tell us a few things about the project. Hi, my name's Dillon, I'm from California. Hi, my name is Cara, I'm from Toronto. And our project is called Deep Dive. It's a virtual escape room of sorts where you, where the controls are hidden in buttons underneath the mats, and you navigate around the mat to find your way out. Yeah. Okay, so should I try it? You should try it. Do I need to wear safety goggles No. to operate them? You do not have to wear them. This is your controller. Oh, okay. And we would ask you to take off your shoes before entering. Oh, sure. Oh my god, I'm already stepping on it. No, that's okay, that's okay. It just, it helps if you're not wearing shoes. I've only, I haven't broken one, a project. (mumbling) I usually break at least three to four projects. All right, so this is your controller. Okay. Oh yep, there you go. Here, do you want to actually hold this? Sure. If you need to sing, then you can. Just know that's it's also attached to me. Okay, okay, I will let you touch it. Yeah, I'm going to grab this side, so I can move. Okay. Look for a light. Okay, I'm looking for a light. Hopefully I'll be able to read 'em, we'll see. Oh, okay. What? Oh, I don't know how, so I found the light though. (chattering in background) This is weird. Oh. I guess I can hold it now. I can hold the mic, if that's affecting it, because I feel really paranoid. You can tell it's just cliffs and, oh okay, hold on. (laughing) I will say, the sooner I have to stop, I'm going to be the expert. Oh, I guess not. Did I, like this. This is my controller somehow. You might want to explore a little more on the Xs. Oh. It's that hint I'm going to give you. Two Xs? All right, so if you keep your eyes up here, it will show you how the Xs are an intricate part related to the scene. (chattering in background) (mumbling) Okay, and maybe not. All right. Oh, so can I like, can you move into the left? (mumbling) Yep, slip all of your weight on that X. Oh. There you go. If it'll hold me. (chattering in background) I don't know why it looks that way? It might have been, you might want to go back and look at it. (laughing) Paranoid to really jump onto this. Oh yeah. Oh yeah, there's the light, yes. (chattering in background) Red, press the light to turn on. So this is when you would use your controller. Oh, oh, right, there's a button there. Thanks for the clue. You're welcome. We've been giving them out this whole. I'm not the only one who didn't figure anything out. Totally not, definitely not, absolutely not. Maybe we can find an oxygen tank. (chattering in background) Did I miss it? You look for doubles. Oh, okay. (chattering in background) Is this my time, how much time I have left? Yes. Oh. Exactly, right in front of. How do you get out of this cave? I don't think I'm going to make that. Oh, I have more till I get more time. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's usually two minutes, (inaudible). (chattering in background) Am I all the way at the edge? Whoa, there's a dolphin. Grab on, yes. Yeah. Okay, so you can steer the dolphin with A. It's actually to it, (background noise drowns out speaker). You can steer the navigator on him. (background noise drown out speaker) Am I going the right way? Yes, but keep your eyes on the yellow T. Oh. (chattering in background) [Male] Oh no, no. (chattering in background) I think I made it. I think I made it. (laughing) Almost, you're almost there. (chattering in background) Do I have to turn to get in? [Both] No. You just keep going straight. Okay. You just have to keep your eye on the floor over there. (chattering in background) It feels like I need to turn. Where's the exit? I just have to complete this, I'm sorry for everyone here. Whoo. It's there. It's there, you're so close. (chattering in background) I'm really going outside here. (mumbling) It's all right. (chattering in background) (upbeat dramatic music) That's awesome. Thank you so much. Who's the fastest? I'm sorry? Was anybody like really fast figured it all out? Kids. Kids, yeah. Kids figure it out fast. Yeah, they're not, they don't have as many hiccups. It's like, oh my god, I'm going to mess this up, I'm terrible. They also really like to jump on those, which is Jump on those. which is actually one of the best ways Yeah. to get it to bounce. Yeah. So, yeah. Good job. Thank you so much. Okay, all right, oh I can put my shoes back on. [Jenny] Dan, I'm glad you're wearing such nice socks. Yes oh yes, these are my quick draw socks. StringandLoop.com, not a sponsor, but I'm promoting them anyway. (laughing) Okay, oof, I'm exhausted already. All right, let's come over here. We can look at this project. Can you guys come together and, Yeah. and tell us your names, plural. And. And so is that your project? I'm Arnab. Hi, I'm Atharva. Lillian. All right, so what did you make? Yes. We made this thing which is the mystery machine. It's a set of six to seven quizzes, depending on how you play. And there's a backstory to it, about gag videos. So there's an evil guy when I was creating this, might actually destroy all gag videos on the internet. And we have a friend who load the antvirus through that, to save all the gag videos inside this machine. So we want to plug the machine, and solve all of the puzzles, and make sure we have gag videos for the interneting. Well this is a very important work that you are all in. Yes, it is. (laughing) Cute. Okay, so what's the best way? Does one of you want to like press around? Or should I be trying it? What's the most effective? I can, yeah, I can do. Maybe has. If you would, okay, so I can help you with the first one. Okay. And then you can probably get on with it. Okay. Oh okay, so because it says no connection found. Okay. Oh. And there's an internet cable hanging out. So you can probably plug in the internet cables. There you go. It says connections are repaired. Oh yeah, keep playing around as much as you want. Oh, that one. There you go. It's got that fast. Yeah. Square waves, that's nice. Let's turn everything on. We oughtta turn this, this switch looks like it really needs to go on. No. Oh boy. It's one thing, do not touch. Oh. There you go, something happened. Oh wait. Oh wait, wait, wait, wait. We've got a line that feeds here. Oh perfect, pull. Oh boy, this is very satisfying. Uhoh, I'm not actually, it's not very forgiving. You're almost there. You almost Yeah, you're almost there. need to be exactly. Oh, okay. There you go. Okay, you're on to the next puzzle. This really reminds me of another television show, Lost. If you guys are familiar with it Yes. Set up of like the weird underground strange things. Okay. Yeah. Wait, what do I do now? One in seven to try. One button is telling you this. I did this one already. And it's on. Here that comes, but not on. Yeah, that switch Oh, I'm not supposed to leave it on? Yeah, (speaking faintly). I can call my. Something else on the cross. Something else on the coordinates. These ones, these ones. Oh, shut these, I. Oh, look at this. Okay, but there must be some pattern to this that I'm supposed to get. Yes. Yeah. It's really frustrating. That's not it? Oh, you're almost there. Almost there. And this one was how quickly you are. We wanted to make one, which was this thing. Impossible to solve like this. That some of these boxes that I told you to do. You can do more here. Yeah. In fact, even I don't know the answer to this one. Only I know the answer to this one. You said it, I think you, you threw me off by saying it was almost there. Yeah. Okay, let me give you a hint. Two of them go up, and three of them go down. Okay. It's no server, all right. I'm going to try every possibility. (laughing) There we go. You good? Yeah. See I was actually, what I was trying to do there, was I wasn't just imagining it was actually some logic to Yeah. the pattern. There is a logic. Okay. So, the thing is, There is. the logic repeats three times. Ah, okay. So every thinks, okay, I got it, but it doesn't answer it though. Got it. Unless we want Got it. them to get Got it, got it. the same one. There's more? There's two more, yes. There's two more. Great, yeah. Actually, you have a plug. You might need two hands for this one though. You will need two hands for this. Here, you can hold this. Yep, yeah. Okay. No way, that would ruin my shot. Oo. You got it? That looks very familiar to me. That's fooling eyes. Yeah, so (laughing) I just took a guess. I didn't know you had it. Do I get extra points for knowing those go in there? (laughing) That's an excellent cheat you found. Oh this now. Yeah, there you go. You had. Cat videos are strange. You have cat videos. That's great. Yep. Remarkably fun. (laughing) Thank you. What, is this just, I mean, I feel when it does ask me this, what I assume this is just a plain. iPad. It's running on the iPad. You did a nice job with the sort of color and design, the topography, and make it really feal like it's not. Yeah, it works well. Great job. Thank you. Thank you. Okay, I'm a keep goin'. Oh hi, Ashley. Hi. I want to interview about your project. Sure, sure. Okay. Say your name, where you're from, and then tell us a few sentences about your game. And then we'll come in closer Okay. with the camera. Okay, I'm Ashley Lewis. I made lost and found bots. And so they are these little robots that feel lost without one another. And when you connect their hands, they feel found. And so it's just an experiment around how to add personification to electronic components. And like if a robot, if connectors were things that humans had, like what, how would we use them to feel emotions. Cool. I love the, Yeah. I just love the name, lost and found bots. Thanks, thanks. (laughing) Okay. Yeah. Oh, they're beautiful too. Wow. Thanks. Yeah, so these are them. So you can see their little faces say lost. And then when you connect their hands. You have to bring them really close, like they're hugging. And then, they'll feel found. That's it. But it's a prototype for a bigger project. I want to build a robot society. Uhhuh. Where there are like 10, and you can connect their hands in duos or trios to find out Right. what their like rules of their society are, and how they operate socially. It's interesting, 'cause there's a temptation to really like make these anthro, makes these real anthropomorphic. Yeah. But they feel, they have personality to them, but they're not like, oh look here's the eyes, there's the nose. Nice. So I think that works really well. But I love this idea of like, it feels like they're sort of hand holding. Is there a reason, one thing I'm curious about, is there a reason why you picked the red color as the LED? Right. 'Cause that feels kind of like alarm, alarm. I understand. As opposed to like, here we are together. Yeah, I felt like it would as like heart, like love. Ah, okay. Like affection, Yeah. kinds of things. Yeah. But yeah, I feel like it's like maybe through the human lens, a like big red LED Right. is an alarm. But maybe through a robot, The bot, yes. it's like affective affection. Yes, I totally. You know. There is a whole robot language that I am not familiar with, so. Yeah, yeah. I'm only learning to speak it, so. Awesome, beautiful. Yeah. Great job. Thanks, thanks. And what's on, what's like, what's, like have kids come up to this, and wanted to play with it? Yeah. Or like what's the? Yeah, yeah, it's been really well received from kids. I think like I've learned a lot about the different kinds of stories that people build around it. Yeah. And that was most exciting when I was talking to kids, like what narratives are in the world of these little robots, so. Yeah. You did a great job. Thanks, thanks. Great, okay. All right, we're movin' along here. This is another project, yes? Yeah. Can you tell us your name, and a few sentences about it? Sure, hey, I'm Caleb. This project is called mood ring. It's just a mirror that's also a mood ring. So a mood ring, the way I understand it, is the thing that you put on, and it changes colors based on your mood. Right. So that's what's happening with this mirror? Right. Okay. So if you walk up to it, and stand like about here. And it'll track your face, and try and figure out the emotion based on. So it thinks you're sad. And it looks you're mad. Now it thinks you're surprised. Now it thinks you're mad again. We should show a little behind the scenes here. You go up and, right, go up and we see the, the camera, no. The camera? I thought this would be an exciting moment. Hi everyone. I'm sorry it's shaky, I'm getting tired. None of your face is in the mat. Oh. You can be on the right. What? Oh, it thinks you're sad. Everybody in the chat oh. Should be very very nice, and kind to Jenny here, who's been carrying this camera for so far 45 minutes, and Just started. and we might need to take a break soon. And we're going to keep going. Thank you guys. Thank you so much Caleb. Stay strong. Okay, Tushar can you tell us your name, where you're from, and a little bit about your project? Okay, my name is Tushar and I'm from India. And this is a voice synthesizer which makes music from your. And it's unknown since that you can play music on cue, sort of collaborate with a synth. Then you say okay, make me some music using these three or four notes. And since it gives you what it feel like today. So you want to try it? Yeah. Okay. Can you, will it come out of the speakers? Yes. Okay, great. So actually what, maybe you should perform it for us. Awesome, let's do it. So I record my voice. Hmmmm. And then. (melodic tones of music) (slow melodic music) So all of the sounds is coming from the first recording you did of your voice? Yes, so there's an element of my voice in there. There's also a synth, it's called a voice synth, voice and synth Yeah. put together. And of course the drums is drums, not the microbionic. So, but people coming to this show record their own voice, Of course, yeah, yes. and then they're hearing it. And are you collecting those, or? Yes, I'm collecting them. So that's the feedback I got yesterday, Yes. and I was like okay. Yeah. That's such a great plan. Digitally make an orchestra of all the people like. Yeah. I see you want to be clear and transparent Yes. about that you're Yes, yeah. collecting people's voices. But it would be beautiful I think to make an orchestra of all the people visiting the show. Down to show, definitely. Awesome, great. All right, let's, I'll collect my voice. How do I do that? Okay. Let me restart (speaking faintly). (mumbling) You just press record? So start humming a note into the mic, and while you're singing press record. Hmmm. Now if I want to hear. Perfect. If I want to hear my voice back? So you only hear it once. Ah. It plays it back once. And then you start. (melodic tones of music) It's playing one there. And now you can select notes. Found it. (upbeat melodic music) And it's making a melody of it now. And you can decide how complex you guys want it to be. Maybe simpler. Or it can be more complex, this is simpler. Awesome, so nicely made. It's like, it's look like I go, when I first saw that, I was like oh, you bought a thing to like work with your project. Then I realized, like oh no, you made that thing. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's really good. Good job, congrats. Yeah, thanks. Okay. (chattering in background) It's going to be 2019. Hello. Hi. Do you want to tell us about your project real quick? Sure. I would be happy to tell you about the project. Okay, okay. So. So say your name first, yeah. Yes. So hi, my name is Ellen, and I made this project with Beverly, Alden, and Ling Won. And we made a website that anybody can control. So if you go to visualmode.space, you will have access to the controller. And there are two different modes. You can send your own GIF, or you can change to an abstract shapes visual mode. So part of the fun of this, is that you can try to control it, but anybody can control it. So can you, are you really in control? So what we can do is send a word and change it live if you like. I have a feeling people are already doing this. Yeah. (laughing) Right? So, yep. You're not doing that are you? But no, I'm not doing it, I'm not doing this. So would you like to send a word to begin? Rainbow. Rainbow, okay that's good. I'm so, you know, so out, that's too on the nose. Let's see if it sends it. Oh, it does. I think we're, I think the, I think this is the so then we got a rainbow real quick. Right. But this is like the perfect project for us to actually demonstrate. 'Cause I thought, it's not like Here, oh. hundreds of thousands of people watching. Yes. But there's going to be Yes. hundred or so. There's a lot of stuff going on. That's cool. So a rainbow really quick. Yeah, there we go. I like that this is a project that it's hard to probably like control, in the sense that you're just looking into like search stuff on GIPHY. Right. So there's a layer of protection. I'm always worried about these kind of things with live streaming. Oh hey, you can put your text here. How do you make something fun, and interactive, and enjoyable, Yes. but also and flexible, but also have this kind of protection. I'm still monitoring Yes, good, good job just in case something happens during the show, it is a family program, I have to keep my show. Yes, yes. But yeah. Looks like we're going to get a lot of people controlling it all night long. (laughs) Awesome. Great. Thank you so much! Hope we've made your project even more special than it already is. You have, you have. Thank you! Okay. (laughs) Alright, let's come over, let's try to make a How are you doing there, Jenny? [Jenny] Good, good. You're okay? You sure? Cause we can stop, take a break? [Jenny] Good, maybe at an hour. At an hour we'll stop and take a break, cause we can also switch for a little bit. [Jenny] Oh. (laughs) You might not want to be on camera. [Jenny] I don't really want to be on camera, thanks. Can we ask about your project? Uhhh... We'll come back. Okay. I see it on your face. Okay, MH, are you... I'm also We'll come back, okay. Let's go over here. Here, can you tell us about your project that you made with Julia, right? So tell us your name, Julia's name, and a few sentences about this project, and then we'll play around with it. Sounds good. My name is Stefan, my partner is Julia Rich. Unfortunately, they are not here right now, but I can do my best to explain on my own. It's an interactive alien garden. So the idea is that it's sort of a discovery experience, users will come in and touch things, it's very tactile. And just discover different interactions, different sort of playful elements. My kids were here at the show yesterday, and this is one of the highlights for them. Just to be able to, I mean, I already know what happens, but maybe we can show a little bit. Sure. Okay, I don't know what the best... You can cross them. There you go. Okay. So I'm going to open up this. So there's a little Fluff who lives in our garden, and he sometimes makes an appearance under the rock here when you lift it up. By the way, it took a while for the kids to figure out that this is that rock. It's not like, which is, no, that's the good, that's the fun part. It's not really meant for me to just come over here and do it. Fluff also comes over here, right? Yeah, so Fluff actually, we like to say he lives in this cave over here, but he's a little more shy with visitors in his cave, so he doesn't always like people to reach their hands in there. So he'll hide away. Let's see if Fluff comes out. But also, there's something here I can do, right? Woops. Oh no, no. [Jenny] Oh no. The microphone. The microphone. [Jenny] Okay, great. It requires a delicate touch. (digital beep) There you go. As you can see, it lights up all these different mushrooms. We like to think that they're all sort of connected by an underground like root system, so they all lead to this flower here. Maybe there's something over here. Who knows? Just like the wind blowing through the grass. And you're both, you're showing this somewhere else? Yes, Julia and I are actually going to be showing it at the Children's Museum here in Manhattan. We're pretty excited to have some younger kids manhandle it, it's sort of the ultimate playtest, I think. Yeah, and it's amazing. I mean, tons of people all playing with it yesterday, and looks like it's still working just fine. Knock on wood, yeah. (laughs) Awesome. Thank you. Sure, let's go over here. Alright, we've come for the real deal, Emily. The real deal? (laughs) You come up here, and we'll first just say, because there's some light here, Oh great. Tell us your name, where you're from and a couple sentences about your project and then we'll see it in action. Okay, great. Hi, I'm Emily. I'm from Los Angeles, and this is an interactive about how we can power our days using solar cells. It tries to also detail some of the complexity of that process, so I guess I'll try it in action if that's okay. Sure, yeah. Okay. So this is the intro page, but we can power our days. And there are four different modules that we can experience. One of the complexities is the voltage generated, the voltage that can be generated from the solar panels. And you can see the relation between the position of the house and the angle of the light, and how that makes a difference with how much power can be generated from the solar panels. And another perspective that I've included here is a cross section of the solar cell. So in a bit, you will see the science of how solar cells work. So the photons hit the solar cell, and it generates this charge carrier that moves through the circuit, thereby creating electricity or power. And you made all these animations. Yes, using P5JS. Amazing. Cando tool, yes. And then how are you, sorry to interrupt you, how are you then communicating to all of the physical elements here? Yes, great question. I am using Arduino to communicate. And also the serial port P5.0 port to communicate with the buttons, so every time a button is pressed, it sends a message to Arduino, oh, this button is pressed, go to this page now. And there's also a night mode, because it talks about the excess energy. So when you go to night mode it says, oh, you can use that excess energy that's stored during the day to light up your house. And this is obviously amazing, this demonstration tool, but is it actually also these solar panels are actually active? Yes, they are. They are, oh wow. Yes, these are the sensors in this. Ah, amazing! Yeah, they're doing an analog read to get a reading to do these livetime animations. So it is really acting like a sensor. That's amazing. This is, I feel like this should be required viewing for like science museums about energy and everything. Thank you so much. Great job. Yes, okay, awesome. Thank you so much, oh my gosh, I want a picture of that. You were great, you were great. You don't need to. It's perfect. (laughs) Do you want to tell us, I know this is something harder to demonstrate, because it requires the phone and that sort of interaction Yes. But do you want to just say your name and a couple sentences about your project? Yes, of course. My name is Veronica Fiel, from Costa Rica. My project is called 36 out of 100. It's a physical data visualization of 36% of women who have experienced physical and/or sexual violence at some point in their lives. So I am using my voice to tell their stories, I'm giving them a voice. And I built this interactive piece so that every time that the user pick up the phone and plug the jack, then a story [Project] 36 out of 100 women Of one of those 36 women is told through my voice. (project continues, drowned out by Veronica) It's a physical data visualization of like 100, representing 100 women, and 36 of them have a story, a sad story to share. Is that based on a specific statistic, Yes, yes, yes. Or, yeah. All ECD data collected in 2014. It's in the U.S., it changes in different countries, but I'm representing the data in the U.S. It's a very powerful way of representing, because it immediately has that impact on me to see, the sort of amount of places there. Great, great job. Thank you so much. Here, why don't we at least get a little footage. I will listen to one. (Project voice continues) Oh we can hear, you've got it coming out of the speakers too. No, that's like video. Oh, that's just the explanation. You can pick one, and then you pick up the phone. [Project] Pick up the phone and connect the audio jack This requires a lot of hands. [Project] 36 out of 100 women represented by the circles in this board have experienced physical and/or sexual violence from an intimate partner at some point in their lives. Pick up the phone and connect the audio jack so that I can tell you the story of one of them. 36 out of 100 women represented with the circles in this board have experienced physical and/or sexual violence from an intimate partner at some point in their lives. Pick up the phone and connect the audio jack so that I can tell you the story of one of them. 36 out of 100 women represented with the circles in this board have experienced physical and/or sexual violence from an intimate partner at some point in their lives. Pick up the phone and connect the audio jack so that I can tell you the story of one of them. 36 out of 100 women represented with the circles in this board have experienced It's a really nice interaction. It's very different than, you know, putting on headphones for example, to use this actual device, it has a more intimate quality, it sounds like you're on the phone with someone. Is there a reason why you chose to use your voice as opposed to ask some of the women with their stories to speak? Yeah, most of the stories are anonymously told. Yes, right. So my prompt is, there are many untold stories, and I want to give them a voice, and give women a way to communicate their stories without having to tell their names or show their faces, which is, even collecting the stories was a really difficult process, because it's really difficult to share these kind of stories. So yeah, that's the reason why I'm using my voice to communicate their stories. Great job. Thank you. Okay. Oh boy, are we going to be able to try this? Yeah, you can. It'll be a little weird with the camera, but. First, why don't you first tell us your name and a few sentences about your project? My name is Gilador. My project is a big box. The box takes the things from the outside, and things that are going around it, and abstracts them to give a different perspective about what goes on around you. And, walk inside? Okay, sure. You can sit in any direction. (chattering in background) So what is happening is that there are two cameras mounted on the outside, and the cameras are brought in and displayed along the LEDs that are placed on the walls here, and they get abstracted through touch designer and get displayed here. It's sort of a nice break from the show, you know, you're kind of in I'm going to actually let the door close on you, if you think you want to kind of just talk about how you're feeling. Cool, great job. Thank you. It's very immersive, it is really, it really is immersive. Thank you. Good job. Alright, let's take a look at this and then we'll, maybe we'll have a break. This at least we should get, this is kind of nice, I think, for just a... Oh, both cameras are on the other side now. Yes, so right now, on this side, it's actually performing as a window, where you can see what's behind it. And on the other side, it's performing as a mirror. Mirror, oh, okay. So let's start over and just say your name and tell us the name of your project and then a couple of sentences about it. Hi, my name is Alvin, and this is a project that I did and the name of it is called Space Between Us. It's a light installation and it's composed of two separate screens on each side. And that's what I was saying, on one side it's a window and on the other side it's a mirror. So I could stand on the other side and you could actually stay there, and, right, you're seeing me. Back up. If I just walk by... Great job. This one I didn't see yesterday. Should we take a break for a little bit? You okay? Yeah, I've been, Okay. Oh, well, whatever. I don't think I need a break. Am I shaky? No, you're fine, you're doing great. Ask the audience. I just Ask the audience if I need a break. Yeah, she flies, hi! Can you tell us about your project? Yeah. This is a collaboration? [Both] Yes. So tell us your name, where you're from, and a few sentences about it. I'm Jenny, I'm from Taiwan, and my background is UIX designer. I'm Morgan, I'm from Reno, Nevada, and my background is electrical engineering. And this is called Reverie Fields. It's kind of a self reflection experience where the user is prompted to think about a memory, and then the emotions associated with that memory. And then through these hands, they'll kind of transcend those emotions and memory into lights, and manipulate the lights accordingly. Where'd you get the idea to make this? So we both wanted to tap into the emotions and memories, and then we kind of want to try to express it through light. And we make sure that we don't use LED lights, because we think it kind of gives you the feel. It's like the hue of these lights goes really nice, and kind of emotes the memory. Great, so can I try it? Yeah, of course. Do you want me to hold this for you? Yeah, you can hold it. You can talk into it, too, if you have anything to say. Hii. You won't be able to hear. So I put my hand here? Yes. (drowned out by chattering) It'll prompt you to do it. Oh, it'll prompt you. (chattering in background) This is very intense. (laughs) In a good way. It's beautiful! I almost want to wish that, in some ways, I guess I'm not looking behind me, but it's somewhat immersive, you could imagine building this, and you're just surrounded by all these lights. It works in the sense of the show, but you can also imagine in a completely dark, quiet room. That would be ideal. Exactly what the original concept was. Yes, yeah. Wow. Do you mind sharing what kind of memory you thought of? I was thinking about my daughter, when she was born. I knew it! I don't know if that's like, too cliche, but that's always what jumps into my mind. Oh, it's pretty sweet. I have to admit, I was really in the moment and thinking about the memory and really focused on that, and then all of a sudden, once I'm doing the fingers, I'm just excited by the interactivity of the lights. Yeah, that's fair. But in a way, it's interesting, that balance between having stuff happen for you, and I thought, oh, it's going to like sense my heartbeat, and it's going to like do something, but what's sort of automated and what you ask me to do. Yeah. Yeah, cool. Great job. Thank you so much for trying. Thank you! Sure. You should, do you have this soundtrack? You should send that to me. Because we can overlay it over in the video, later. Okay. We actually have a female and a male voice, which did you want? I had the female voice, but either one's fine. The female voice is mine, by the way. Can we try the bird? We missed the bird, okay. Take a seat. Okay. Say your name. And tell us about your project. My name is Tanik, and this is my partner, Waijie. I'm Waijie. And this is the invisible bird project. So we use like sentimental analysis to analyze a lot of tweet, on Twitter. And we decide it's a positive or negative. And then we bring the data back to the game. And user can guess what public opinion about one topic, and guess what majority being about this topic, is it negative or positive. And the bird will interact with you and tell you the result. You can try it! So, to start it, you say "Where is my bird?" Where is my bird? Maybe you have to say it louder. Where is my bird? So this data come from Twitter, and you can read the negative and positive before you decide which is like majority topic about Taylor Swift. And then you have your almond. You can feed almond inside the cage, and then the bird will tell you the result. [Project] Your guess about Taylor Swift is right. Woohoo! So, if you're right, the bird will eat the one that you feed. But if you're wrong, the bird will shit and fly away. You can try it again. Where's my bird? [Project] Do you think Twitter's attitude about Trump is positive or negative? (chattering in background) Where's my bird? I have one. Yeah, you have one. Probably should have tried to get it wrong once. It's okay, I'm happy to be right both times. Great job. Okay, alright. So I think we've kind of start to be a little more curatorial here and move a little more quickly. We've seen maybe, what, one tenth of the show? Let's go towards, we'll come back here, we'll head back here. Okay. Alright. Tell us your name, and a sentence about your project. My name is Mohammed. And where are you from? I'm from Iran. Hi guys. And yeah, so my project this year is a natural clock. And this project shows you the time of the day not like some arbitrary number. By that I mean, this hand shows the position of the sun in the sky. And this part is the daylight, and this part is the nighttime, your sunset, your sunrise, this will be like high noon, and midnight. So the idea is like it show you the time of the day. That means how much daylight you have, the actual, because it takes a full day to do a full circle. So yeah, it's a more natural way to look at the time. Cause like 24 hours, hours is an arbitrary segment. Could have done it like any length. It's beautiful, the design, what is, is this pattern that's on there a particular design? Um yeah, the design is actually inspired by a 17th century Persian astrolade made for the king back then, Abbas the second. And I actually removed his name from here. But yeah, it's based off of that to point out the heritage, and generally point out the astronomical aspect of this project. Wonderful, great job. Thank you very much. Okay. Do you want to give us a quick, tell these are hard to do with the sound. I know, I could take the sound out of them. It's okay. Just tell us your name and a couple sentences about your project. Okay, I'm Gabriella Garcia. This is the Intergalactic Messaging Center. And I took a retrofuturish phone and totally pieced it back together, so it's all original elements. And I collected a bunch of voicemails from other ITP students by a burner number. And about what they would see in the future. And most of them, actually everybody was really optimistic about the future, which was like hypersurprising, because I wanted to create more of a narrative phone tree, with apocalyptic visions and whatnot, so I ended up creating the branching narrative using more fictional sounds and samples from scifi movies like 2001 A Space Odyssey and Dr. Strangelove. But it's a fully functional IVR. I coded it through P5. And it also has a physical ringer. Everything is like art we know through here, the keypad matrix triggers through P5, and... it's... cute. Amazing. I love all the phones this year, there's so many old retro phones, it's awesome. I think we were all missing something, you know. Really missing something physical in our lives. But it keeps people here for as long as they want. Let's move back this way. (chattering in background) So my strategy now is to try to like speed through a few different areas and then eventually we'll make our way downstairs, and that's where we will finish up. Where are we at, 415? Doing okay there, Jenny? Okay. Alright, let's come back and what do you want to see here? Let's take a look at, I guess we could just get some footage of this room in general. Can you tell us your name and where you're from and a few sentences about this project? Okay, my name is Haik. This project is called the Invisible Orchestra. We made it with my colleague, Grant. So this is actually touchless musical instrument, which is designed for performing artists to incorporate this with their performances. So it basically creates music with your body movement and gestures, which allows, Grant can you Oh yes, I need to tell my family that I'm on. I'm famous. Alright, wait. I'm on... yeah, they've been waiting for this. Oh, seriously! I feel very stressed out now, what if I hadn't made it back here? Okay, tell us your name and where you're from and Hi, I'm Grant, I'm from Charleston, West Virginia, shoutout to Dan and Sarah and Stella and Elise. This is the Invisible Orchestra. It is a series of instruments that can be played using hand motions. Should I just...? Yeah, go for it. Go for it. Okay. (melodic music) That was amazing. Did you guys spend a lot of time rehearsing that? Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, constantly, actually. Every day for the past week. Beautiful. Yeah, it's really nice. Great job. Thanks for stopping by. Okay. Alright. Let's try over here real quick, I know this is tricky but, here. Tell us your name and a couple sentences about your project. I'm Casey Kanchina. My project is called Constapineation. I did with my partner Mark Wayne. And it's essentially a community line drawing. And so you go inside this tent, you connect two points, and then it gets added into this big drawing that gets projected on the outside of the tent. So do you want to try it or should I do it? I'll try it, I'll try it. Alright. Describe how you feel. I think you might need to hold this open. Yeah. This is my rainbow. Or sine wave. How about I do like a Fourier series? Square wave. Wow, getting mathy there. Must be a way to do like a smiley oh, I can't stop. Smiley face. It's very satisfying to draw. And now we can, we'll find it on the outside. Yeah, so it's on the outside now. Alright, it's on the top right now. And then we have a party mode. This is the party mode. Yeah. So that's it. Alright, we're going to do one more project back here, and then we're going to move along. So tell us your name and then a couple sentences about your project. My name is Jackie Lu. And my project is called the Body Pillow. So, what the Body Pillow is, it's a speculative project that tries to answer, if we can replicate the feeling of human skin and human touch, can it bring the same benefits, emotionally and physically. Sorry, I got distracted by Rob. Yeah, no worries. Me too. This was also one of my daughter's favorite projects. Sitting in this chair yesterday, just hugging the pillow. Oh yeah, I got a great picture. I got a really good picture of her doing that yesterday. Yeah! Great job. Thank you. And I created a prototype. I'm just going to, let's just come, this was fun too. I'm just trying to like move through these projects quickly. (rings bell) Alright, tell us your name and a couple sentences about your project. Okay. I am (Japanese name) from Japan. I'm a first year ITP student. This is my ICM project. I have actually two installations here, but this is my ICM project. So you can make paintings by a sound. So like, here. (bells ringing) Like this. Or... (wooden rattling) So different timbre generates different color, and the size of the paint is based on the amplitude. And also you can make snow falls, jelly blossoms, and autumn leaves. So I would like to use this in my life reference, which has three year olds. Yes. So that audience also can play with this. Great job, congrats. Yeah, thank you so much. Okay, do you want me to carry this for a little bit as we move to give you a break, [Jenny] Oh, sure. As we move to, let's do that. You just hold this. [Jenny] Okay. And I'm now carrying this thing. So we can go, yes. This is what we can do, we can move now. I'm walking through the hallway. I kind of forgot that I'm livestreaming. There's 247 people watching us now? That's a lot of them. So I think we should move down this hallway to the room in the front. And then we can kind of catch some of these projects a little bit. We can see them. We're kind of getting some, it's sad, but I just cannot, we cannot catch all the projects. So I'm just going to go by some of these. Okay, move over here. And then, oo, it's crowded here. Alright, so let's... oh, the dark room. Oh, interesting. Okay. (crowd chattering) Oh, thank you. Say hello to the livestream. Hi! I love BFP by JIS. It's going live right now. I should have stickers with me. Okay, let me think here. Oh this project is wonderful. Let's take a look at this. Alright. I think I'm going to be a little, just catch them here. Okay everybody, we're back. I mean we were here the whole time, but I took a mental break there for a second. Okay, can we get some information? So tell us your name, where you're from, and a few sentences about this project. Hi, I'm Jasper from China. And our project is called Forming Hobbies. We are trying to show the relationship between people and smartphones. And you can interact with them by putting your phone here. Want to try it? I would, but my phone is right here right now. Oh, this is mine. Probably on the livestream. Okay, so once you put your phone here, they will all be affected by your smartphone. And they keep moving their heads up and down. We are doing a metaphor, just showing the relationship between people and smartphone. You see they keep moving their heads up and down, just like we constantly check message from our smartphone. And once you remove the phone, they will back to normal life. I don't know if people can hear the sound, but the little chattering sounds, and the music suddenly changes, and everybody bows down. It's really really effective in communicating the idea. This is just so beautifully made. There's so much personality in these characters, it's great. We won't give the personality to the puppets. (music) (puppets chatter) Beautiful work, great job. Um, let's move out here. This is a fun project. We can just watch these people, I don't know if the creator of the project is here. [Jenny] I don't know if the screen will read. (chattering in background) Is this your project? Yeah! Okay, so tell us your name, and tell us a couple sentences about your project. My name is Sharianne. My kids love this one, I don't think you were here when they were doing it. My name is Sharianne. This is my project called Tube Man is Happy. So basically it's two dancing peoples where you're supposed to follow the movements of the tube men and transfer yourself into a happy tube man. And get a gift, send it to yourself, share it with your friends. I started the idea because I want to make everyone feel happy, and I just love, I'm obsessed with the tube men. So I created a speaker, and then I want to transfer everyone into that, and ensure the happiness. Can I try it? Yeah, sure! You guys want to send it to yourself? Are we sending it? Yeah, you got it. We have to, we're going to wait for a second, we're going to watch them. This is good actually, we've got some footage of them sending theirs. And this is not your mailbox. We had some reindeer like things here yesterday, and my daughter was wearing them. Was very obsessed with it. I still have those Christmas. Do you want to see if we can use to take pictures? [Jenny] Very dashing. (laughs) It's very funny how this is right by the elevator. Okay, here we go. [Jenny] Oh, that's me. I have the microphones. It's attached to me, so I can't put it down. This actually works well, like, to... (laughs) (chattering in background) That's the sound of a train. Choo choo! (laughs) Okay, I guess I better... That was pretty good. I'm going to be getting a lot of emails now. [Jenny] Oh, I'm not showing your email. Okay, I'm putting in my public... alright. Thank you for letting me wear that too, it was very nice. Yeah, she loved it. Oh, we've got (drowned out by background) Oh! Yes. I'm sorry to jump in and interrupt. Tell us your name, where you're from, and a few sentences about this amazing thing that you've made. Goodness. I'm James, I'm from South Africa originally. And a few sentences about this? So, this is a series of pieces that I did for a class called Fabrication, where you learn how to build stuff. But they all kind of connected together, so I thought I'd put them in the show. Go ahead and spin the, spin the crank. So what's happening here is, as you're spinning the motor, you're generating the electricity that is being used to power all these lights. And what I find really interesting, unfortunately this doesn't translate into video that well, but if I disconnect the circuit, feel it becomes a lot easier to spin. Does it? Yes. Yeah, okay. Dan agrees. That is the electrical, that bite that you feel, is the electrical resistance. The energy that's being used to turn on these lights. So that difference in resistance is the work that's being put into turning on the lights. Can you, the switch, cause this is the voltage readout? Yes, that's the voltage. We can get that, and then just unplug it again. Get it later. Oh, wonderful, okay. So as I unplug this system, it becomes a lot easier to spin. And that difference in resistance is the energy that's being used to turn on the lights. Cool, great job. Thank you. Getting a little exercise today. Okay, let's go head to the undergraduate area. And then we'll go downstairs and be on our way to being done. You doing okay? I should carry when we, carry it in when we go downstairs, if you know what I mean. [Jenny] Okay. No problem. Okay, let's... hello, we're going to move through here. And over here. Alright, we're entering the interactive media arts room. It's very exciting! We're moving from ITP to IMA. These are undergraduate students in their natural habitat. [Jenny] (laughs) How's it going over here? Hi, can you come back in a second? We'll come back, yes. Oh, let's take a look at this. Can you tell us what you're experiencing here? Do you mind being live on camera for a second? He can't even hear me. Hey. How are you? I'm good. What are you hearing in there? I'm hearing each of these donuts tell me a story when I pick it up. And it's triggered by the light. So when you uncover the donut, then you get the story. When you want to hear a different donut's story, you pick a different donut. Or pizza or, dumplings of some sort. Can you guys come over here and introduce yourselves and tell us about your project? So tell me your names, where you're from, and a little bit about what you made. Okay, I'm Sama Shinivas, I'm from California. I'm James, I'm from Ghana, but I live in the Bronx. So our project is basically a lighthearted take on the inevitable truth that we will lose people in our lives, and so we have three characters, Roger, Rachel, and Ronnie. Roger is an old man who's a retired veteran whose friends are all dying and his wife has died as well. And then Rachel, all her exboyfriends left her for some reason or cheated on her. And Ronnie's friends are all moving away. And basically, this is sort of just a playful take on our silver lining where we all are companions in our grief. It's a very implicit theme that you can't really see at face value. But it's also just a really funny way to portray it, anthropomorphic food. Where did you get the idea for this? Everything started cause I heard Dunkin' Donuts was changing their name to just Dunkin'. So I was like, I need a donut that can portray this very well. So I created Roger, and then like, that's how the project started, we were like, you know what, we should explore this thing a bit more, and then we spread it out to like three different characters. I tried this yesterday and the dumplings are my favorite. Oh, thank you. Let's try to get some closer up footage of it. The other thing I like about this project is the nice Purell that's here. (chattering in background) Okay, let's go over here. Oh, this is nice! Can we check out this plant? Yes, of course. Oh, and the solar system's starting. We're going to try to speed through these projects, so. Tell me your name and a couple sentences about what you made. Okay, my name's Feif, and my project allows you to enjoy a virtual plant, mainly because I can't keep plants alive, so I have a virtual one. So we start out by pushing the treeometer to the side to decide which plant you're planting. Might have to do it towards the other way. Okay. And fern, okay. Yeah. So next pat the Force sensor pretty hard. And it'll pat the soil down. You have to go a bit harder than that, there you go. Okay. And finally, you need to water your plant, so if you take water from here, pour it into. Oh, this is where I break the project by accident. (laughs) There we go. And finally, you need your cell phone flashlight, which I will do for you. So if you shine it, it makes the clouds disappear and your plant grow bigger. And you're done! So it's low risk, low responsibility. Awesome, great job. Thank you. This is super fun. Alright, let's check out the solar system. Can you tell us your names and where you're from and a couple sentences about what you made? I'm Sarah. I'm from Boston, or Brookline. People are, but yeah. I'm Aporva. I'm from Chicago. Our project is an interactive solar system. And what you do is, you, first you have your little rocket ship. And you can select any planet that you want to look at. And then you pick up this little controller. And then move it around, and that will kind of Can I try one? Yeah, sure, go ahead. Yeah. And then, that will control the rotation of the planet. It's working so well. Yeah! And then you can go back by clicking on space, and then you can just go anywhere. Can I also look at the sun? Yeah, the sun's fair game. So planets plus big star. The scale is so different, that they're always the same size once you click into it, but you're seeing them at their scale. Cool, awesome. It's a really fun interaction. Great job. Okay. Let's maybe, oh let's try, come over here. Okay. Tell us your name and a couple sentences about your project. This is a project by Cas and I. Cas is Yaohou, Yaohou Zhong, and he's not here right now. This project is called Space World. So we're creating an experience in the space, it's like you are floating. And when you put up your arms, you begin to fall into this space. I'm inspired like in Washington Square Park, one day, when I was 3, and I saw a pool of water. I saw the way the stars are reflecting. So this is the project. Whoa. So I will do a demonstration. Okay. You can stand here. (chattering in background) Wow. That's beautiful. Thank you. Great job. So, Helen, can you tell us your name and where you're from, and give us a quick summary of your project? Hi. And this is a collaboration, yes? Yes it is. Tell us Hi. Yeah, I'm Helen Heschens. I'm from Andorra, but I was born here in Manhattan. Our project is called Censorship. And it's a telephone conversation between two people, and it's a machine that doesn't believe in global warming, so you guys, like, you can sit down and have a conversation with someone, and sort of phrases you say, the machine won't let through. So if you say climate change, the other person will hear Chinese hoax, say. So yeah. Alright, before you get up, can you be our model for a second? You bet. Sure. Act as if you're in the project. (laughs) Did you see the reporting of the extreme weather? (speakers are drowned out by background) I love the massive wires. The crazy brain. The actually is really good too. And this is your project too? Yes. Climate scientists were saying they were worried about greenhouse gasses, and... I'm James from Nanjing, China. I did the teching that's, she did all the rest. Congrats. Great job. Thank you. Okay. (chattering in background) We're about, we're going to wrap up in like 20 minutes. We'll try to see a few more things. I would love to head downstairs. Just trying to see, I didn't actually make it into this room yesterday. Or that room. So I don't know, I don't know if you have anything you want to... Let's just walk, here, let me carry it for you. [Jenny] Okay. And then we'll just walk through. [Jenny] Okay. This is one thing that I didn't think about, is that being attached to it. So this is just like, walking through footage. Hey, how are you? Nice to see you. Oh, so these are elbow cutting. This elbow cutting, and it's removable. So if she spills when she's eating, she can throw these in the washing machine. [Child] That's cool. Yes. And they're velcro, and it's just epoxy glue. (chattering in background) Can we try this? Sure! Yeah, alright. Alright, okay. Let's switch this back, hold on. I've seen funny things on the internet. Oh yeah. I don't know. (mic crackles) First Jenna, just come over here, and Wait, you're going to play, right? I'm going to play. But I want you to just say your name and like a couple sentences about your project. It's your project, not my project. You can opt out if you want. Hi, I'm Jenna. This is my project, in which two people compete to see who is the most New York out of both. So what happens is the computer gives you a topic and then two people take turns expressing an opinion about that topic. And the computer scores your response based on how close it is to the most frequently tweeted things by New Yorkers from 2018 about that topic. So you guys want to give it a shot? Yeah, okay. We're going to play. Alright, let's do it. I'm micced, so I'm going to mostly point this at you. Okay. So this is, yeah. Player One, Player Two. Okay. Sure, ready? Alright, is this pushed? Okay. [Computer] Pizza. Oh, I'm Player One. Slice. [Computer] One player was not in library. Slice. Dollar slice. [Computer] Trump. Jerk. (laughs) Huge jerk. (laughs) I was trying to think of, like, a family friendly way of saying that. I think I, I don't know if it recognized that I called Trump a jerk. (microphone crackles) Subway. L Train shutdown. [Computer] (indistinct) Andrew Governor. Cynthia Nixon should have won. [Computer] Kanye. West. Fashion. You're much more creative than I am. I've already played once, so. Wait, am I trying to get stuff farther or closer? Fashion. Closer. Okay. Fashion. There's too many mics! Fashion. Okay, there we go. [Computer] Amazon. Prime. Prime delivery next day. RIP Long Island City. [Computer] Hashtag seducing in four words. Coding train, choo choo! (everyone laughs) [Computer] Coding train choo choo not in library. (mic crackles) Here's my seamless password. [Computer] Player one wins. Oh, what?! Woooo! How did I possibly win that? Oh, the lower score wins. Yeah, lower score wins. I am still the reigning champion of this game, cause I did win when we played it in class, also. This game is rigged. What's going on over here. I will narrate. I see a sign, a screen that says one minute and thirty... One hour, thirty minutes, ten seconds. That's about... maybe since it started, I would assume? You can interact with this performance. Let's see if we get to be able to interact. Go to augustluhrs.art/play. And there's already 81 people in the queue, so... (mic crackles) (whip cracks) (whip cracks three times) (whip cracks three times) (whip cracks three times) You helped me make this. (laughs) It ain't me. Alright everybody, let's let August take some breaths. Who put the take breath, I think that's good. (chattering in background) [Jenny] I may have to switch to just doing the ten hell, just because there's so little room. Oh yeah. Well we also, we can move along. Let's just try to get some shots of some of these projects quickly, so tell me your name, a sentence or two about your project. Sure, my name's Topher. I made this escape room style installation here. Basically you've got a monster here trapped in a cave. You want to set him free, you got to squeeze his feet in the right order. So do either of you want to give that a shot? I'm great. Alright, you got the first one. So I start over again? No. It has to be this one, right? There we go. It was a much easier escape room than the one in the other oh my goodness, there's something going on here! 263. Beautiful, 263 wait, what does the number mean? What does 63 mean, I don't know. Oh, wait, I have to do more? Oh no, there's a combination here, I see. I said it's not good enough. 2... I'm very nearsighted, so if I take my glasses off, I can see the screen. 263. Alright. I watched a YouTube video on how to like, pick these. (microphone crackles) I had one that I forgot the combination of, I learned to pick it in like five minutes. Oh, yeah, no that's good. That's actually, it's...yeah, there's a little latch here. Well, I'm one handed. Sure, well you've earned it, so. Oh, oh my goodness! You know who's really earned this, would you like one of these? Oh yeah, I earned a chocolate. I'm even going to give Jenny mine. (laughs) I didn't solve the puzzle. I know, but you're holding this thing for like hours. Alright, that's understandable. Yeah, that's okay. This one is staying much longer than that. Oh the longer you draw, the longer it stays. Ohhh. And it's queued? Those might just be a bug. I did draw them. Yeah no, I think there might be a little bug in the code. Can you just tell us a couple sentences about your project? Yeah, my name's Orin. My project is a drawing tool that's also an audio sampler. So every time that you make a mark with the stylus on that tablet, it records sound from those two mics, and you can build up these looping, ambient soundscapes. Um, I'm not sure where to look, there's like the camera there, and anyway. You're fine, you're doing perfectly. Great. Yeah, it's a little hard to show because it's with headphones, so maybe if we put the headphones close to the mic, I don't know if that will work. Go ahead. Who knows. So just try, here, I'll reset it for you really quick. You know, if you actually do this mic, people will hear it, who are actually live. If I do which mic? This mic, the one that's up here. Oh, this, okay, cool. Yeah, except now your hands are in front of the camera. There you go. Alright, cool. It's a complicated process. Can anybody in the chat, if you can actually hear the sound, let me know. People in the chat are not being forthcoming. They can hear it, yeah. Cats. So you have to say something while you're drawing. I know, I can't draw cats and talk at the same time. That's fair, neither can I. Awesome. Good? Cool. Thanks, man. Did you see the peace bomb? What's that? The peace bomb? The peace bomb? Yeah. No, where's the peace bomb? You don't have to go there right now, it's like, like by the AR. Ah, we were, okay, we'll come by. Okay. Can you tell us about this project? Tell us your name, where you're from. I'm Xiaotong, from China. And this is my project. (chattering in background) Also change the pitch at the same time. (chimes) You can see the water it creates pitch. Can I try it? You can tell us about it while I'm trying it if you want. (chimes) What happens if I do two hands, because I can't here, hold this. Oh, yeah. (chimes continue of different pitches) And are these tuned, did you tune them? Did you tune these to some sort of notes? No, it's just from... (laughs) Great job, it's beautiful. Amazing, you built this whole thing. Awesome. Alright, give us a quick explanation of this? Tell us your name. Sure, hi, I'm San, and this is my project. It's called Access. The inspiration is accessibility. And I want to create something that give everyone and anyone an awesome interactive experience, regardless of what limitation you may have. So this interaction is designed for two people. One's supposed to be visually impaired, and the other's supposed to be hearing impaired. And I wanted to give each of the two the ability to create, or to control the same sense or ability that they're lacking for the other person. So if you're visually impaired, you'll be creating visual effects for the other person. And then if you're hearing impaired you'll create sound experience for the other person. Amazing, that's beautiful. Have you done user testing of this with people with different abilities? So, in our department we have one student who is blind, so I have input from him and from various classmates as well as the people who have been visiting our show for the last two days. Awesome, great job. Thank you, Dan. Okay. Let's move this way. We've got a crowd going now. Alright, let's go check the peace bomb, since we had a request. And then we're going to head downstairs and then we'll be done. I think this is the peace bomb, but she's not here. We'll come back. Hello, you want to tell us real quick about your project? So say your name and where you're from. Sure, I'm Zara, I'm originally from Iran. My project, it generates lyrics Based on a 19th century Schubert lyrics. Can people find it online if they want to go look at it right now? Yes. And the url is here, zarak, zarak5.github.io/project. And this is using the ML5 TS library? Yes. I'm using an LSTM model double trained on lyrics. And so what lyrics we just got right now are, Cold and not willing, then I need violent, my father, my father, er. Those are some serious lyrics to get through, great job. Thank you. Okay, okay. So would you like to tell us about your project? Can I refresh real fast? Yes. So you want me to try it first? Okay. Not me. The trigger word is me, so... Oh, the trigger word is me, so it's perfect. And now it's growing. I hacked the system. And then this, And now there's you, the fairest of them all. Alright, can you just tell us your name and the name of your project? Yeah, it's Eve, and the name of this project is the Narcissist Mirror. So it's basically using speech recognition, and when it detects the word me, or I am, it's going to start drawing a photo from the webcam, which is you, and so this is live, so when you move it moves with you. Great job. Thank you. Alright, let's check this out. How are you? Okay, so tell us our name and a couple sentences about your project. My name is (clattering in background), I'm a second year student in ITP program. Our project is a project that Aza and I worked on it, and it's called Painting as Kavinsky. It will be a kind of interactive drawing experience for the user. I will ask the user to, do you want to just try? Yeah, sure. I will ask you to please grab the pen and try to draw on the canvas, like yeah. It shouldn't be on the, actually the surface, maybe the air. Oh, the air. Yeah. As you try to draw something using the webcam, I will tracking your hands and set on the position of your drawing. It can look at the ten points of your movements, and after that, I will send it all to different algorithm based on machine learning. I trained the model to translate your result, your canvas to Kavinsky style. That's why you, for example, draw some line or shape. You can see that they're kind of modern abstract forms, they think that you're drawing. But in real time it's exactly based on your movement. And is this using style transfer behind the scenes? Yeah, Bose. Bose and style transfer. (chattering in background) Great job. Thank you. Okay, we're almost, we're heading downstairs. Just checking this, this is still recording. I'm always completely paranoid that this is not working. Let's just take a look at the Peace Bomb, since she requested we come over here. This is the Peace Bomb. I don't know what to do, but we can see that it's a project made in P5. And maybe I need to click this peace bomb. Light it up. Warning. Uh oh! I think the peace bomb is about to go off. Counting down, there goes the peace bomb. Ah, peace bomb. It is the color scheme that I do like. Here, do you want to switch out, we'll go downstairs, I'll carry this. [Jenny] Oh, it's fine. Okay. (chattering in background) Alright, we are going to go downstairs, and that's going to be the last area. We'll head out through the stairs. So there's, it's very likely that the stream will go down, because the wifi's probably not good in the stairwell, but we'll reconnect when we get back. Alright, let's try this. I didn't mean to just like, jump in and interrupt. (upbeat music) This is for your head. Yeah, your head's over here. Oh, it is here. Oh, I can get both at the same time. Yeah, exactly. Oh my goodness, another one. Jeez! Okay, okay, great job. This is called Live Pose Music. And you can find out more at this url over here? Yeah, this url. This url, we'll put it in. All the links are going to be in the video description. Thank you! Okay. Alright, we're going this way. Okay, oh my goodness. [Jenny] Oh, go for it. Okay. Wish I could just sort of get to everybody's project, but it's not... [Jenny] I don't know, it's like while in theory, I guess we're still live in the stairwell. Yes, it's still going. Last time I remember we got here and it disconnected. [Jenny] There's, um... There's a paparazzi following us. [Jenny] The color's really messed up right now. Someone insulted your act on X. It's an XS by the way. Excuse me, XS. Probably shouldn't respond to me. Oh my goodness. Alright, this is good, then we have an escape hatch down here, so we're going to attempt to go out in the cold. Because I love the projects that are facing the window. [Jenny] Yeah, absolutely. Although personally that would be a good place to finish, so maybe we'll finish there. Oh, here we are. Look at this! We found a project. We exited the door, and suddenly there's a project. Alright, tell us your name and a few sentences about your project. Please tell. Hi, I'm Rebecca. Fluto is a live size flute, and when you blow into your phone, the balls in the flutes go up. And... So, we don't have a phone right now to demonstrate, can you demonstrate with yours? Oh yes, I can demonstrate. And while we're waiting for you to demonstrate, I have to tell this story. In 2001 I took a class at ITP called Physical Computing, and I worked on a project with two other people, Stefan and Jimmy, and we made a... We didn't make a project nearly as beautiful as this, or with any of the music functionality. But we also tried to get balls to float via these fans. So someone on the internet, resourceful people on the internet, see if you can find any record of this project actually existing. That's so funny, I really had no idea. I'll just try to think it up. Okay, go ahead. So we're going to begin, and then we can click on these tubes, and they light up as we click on them. And then, if you talk into the microphone really loudly, or you blow, then they go up. And then after a few seconds they go back down again, and they time out, and then you can try again. And this project is a collaboration, there are four of you? Yes. Meicheng, and YuHao, and Caleb. Awesome. And so people who are watching right now could do this? Yes. So wait, so go to fluto.us, if you're watching this. On your phone. On your phone, and let's see if we can see some rise. It's live. Let's see what happens. [Jenny] There's going to be some lag. Yeah. Oh! Someone did it. Someone's trying. Ohhhh. I think it's just this half that's going. Oh yeah, this half is not working currently. It's like this project is that project to the tenth power. Cool, great job. Colors are beautiful. Thank you for the story. I'm just going to go this way, we're going to just catch a few more projects downstairs. Hey Inimo, I'm sorry, is this your project here? Can you tell us your name, and tell us a little bit about your project? Yeah sure, my name is Inimo. This is a project I did originally with Sophia Flutzel. We developed an AR and AI thermometer. That give you a thing, but it is not here, and you can't see it, you can't touch it. But you can also play it. So this is like a two person attempt to, it's kind of interactive because the person there is playing it and listening to the thermometer, they'll be able to see the thermometer and listen to the playing. So where should I go, should I go over there? Yeah. There will be a sound, so... Yeah, here. If you can stand there and hold it, it's kind of a short cable attached to me. So I do this? But I can put this on and I'll be able to hear it. Oh wow. Or do I do this. So you will put right hand in between which, right or left. Left hand is... (chattering in background) That's quite a bit of fun. I kind of want to see what it looks like, can you stand there real quick? Yeah, sure. I just want to see real quick. So I can see this. So this antenna, it's the matrix, and this is the... Yeah, cool, awesome. Great job. Hi. Can I try this? Yes. Can you tell us your name and a few sentences about this project? My name's Nan. This project's called Fight or Fall. So I'd rather you touch it. Okay. So if you press it really hard. Lay on it. Yes, it's vibrating. Sorry, I'm just too obsessed with the flippies. It's very satisfying. What does it feel like? It feels like a buzzing. It's a little bit sharp actually. It's very soft when I go this. Like it's very smooth and satisfying. Some people say it feels like a pet tail. When they talk quietly, the vibration. Okay, now I get that. And somebody was trying to make a QR code out of it. Yeah. It's been interesting. Great job. Thank you. Hey, can I ask you about your project? Yeah, sure. Tell us your name and a few sentences about what you made. Okay, my name's Addi, I'm a first year, and I made a playful dance floor experience that lets anyone make beats with their body. So it's these nine tiles, which all trigger different drum samples. (drum sample) And you can kind of dance around, make a beat, and then also record to this 32 step sequencer, so I put it in record mode. (drum beats) It's going to remember what I've put in, and it quantizes it, and then you can kind of like, make a little beat. Some of the pads are more sensitive. So yeah, that's most of it. Can I try it? Yeah, sure. (beats continue) This one's stuck. Yeah. Awesome, so that wasn't recording just then, that was just doing the... At one point I turned off the record mode. Got it. But it's going to keep looping. And if you, could you imagine using this as part of a performance, or do you think it's more like for people to play with. I think it's more for people to play with, an interactive piece, that kind of thing. A lot of fun. Yeah, I don't want people to take it too seriously as like a precise tool, you come up, you fool around a little, and no matter what you do, it kind of ends up sounding musical, because if you repeat anything it becomes music. Well it worked for me, because I'm not at all musical. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Great job. Thank you. Whoa, is this your project? Yeah, it is my project. Oh my goodness, there's like, this is a literal sand ocean. Alright, tell us your name and a few sentences about your project. I'm Billy Bennett, and this is the sand ocean, as you said. So I've basically suspended sand above a speaker and the speaker vibrates the air which moves the sand in interesting patterns and stuff. And you can tilt the coffee filter using Servos and Arduino. Yeah, that's basically it. Let's come look at this. (loud humming) So this is a coffee filter, and there's sand in it. (mic crackles) We're seeing the actual camera there, and Nicholas here is controlling the joystick, yes? You can see the sand kind of reacting to the music. And what's your, what are you thinking right now, as you're doing this? It sounds great, and it's very, now I'm an artist. How long, have you been here for like the last hour and a half? Two hours and a half, yes. I feel like at the beach, I'm finally at the beach. What's on the iPad? (notes play) That is the animo tab that you can display different notes will make it move more or less depending on how it resonates. Low notes move the sand to one side. That's amazing, wow. It's interesting, he perfectly said, this is amazing. I love all of the like kind of analog of this. I almost feel like it's like an actual physical (notes drown Dan out) Thought the cello sounded appropriate. Great, music genre, so. Okay, what is this amazing thing over here? There's nobody at this project. I don't know if I'm allowed to touch it, what do you think? Let me go that way. You're live on the internet right now. Am I? But I'm hiding you right now, so you're okay. I can be fine with that. Is there, okay, this project, oh, this is the Cheg Chao's project. This is called MetaTime, the human daily struggle with time. So I see a clock. See the chain. It's going backwards, and a chain. Wow, this is very intense. Certainly how I feel about time. Touch things here, but. I do not know what's happening. Alright there's like weights down there, that's amazing. Ah, this is from Nine. Were you at Nine? Yeah, so you might know more than me. Okay, alright, let's move around. Can you tell us about your project? Oh, hi. Alright, tell us your name and a few sentences about your project. Hi, my name's Effie. And I'm showing my nine new interface for music expression class project. My music instrument is called the War Fan. And that is a human body scale folding fan that opens up in two directions. I'm going to show you, this is one direction. This is the other direction. And then, the sensors attached to it, there's accelerometer, and a contact mic. It's picking up acoustic and synthesized, it's picking up acoustic sounds and then sending signals to the computer and then making different sound effects. And you used this in a performance, yes? I did. This is... (chattering in background) And can people see the video of your performance online? I'm still adding them in. Still editing. But I'll post them to my website here. Awesome, great job. Yeah, nice to see you. Alright, hey. How's it going? Whoa, we've got some punch cards here, what's going on? Oh yeah. Alright, tell us your name and a few sentences about this project. Hey, I'm Andarik. This is an old school computer that makes music with punch cards. Wow. Pretty much. It's a bit hard to demo it here with the speakers, but you want to try it with headphones? Sure. Let me just try, No one will be able to hear. Should we try it with the speakers, just for now. Yeah, we can try. Let me just refresh the session for you. You can put any card you want wherever you want. Just one rule, the color has to be facing this way. And I would start with the green one here. Okay, here we go. Ready? The color facing that way. The one rule, and I already... At the bottom or at the top? At the top, like this. And I would start here. There, I got it! (music plays) So this is your rhythm section, your harmony section, and your melody section. You're composing a musical arrangement with three components of music. Rhythm, harmony, melody. Depending which part you put in where, you will hear different sounds. And it's pretty hard to appreciate. I love the moment where it like snaps in with the magnet, really nice choice of how to do that. Thank you, yeah. It was very important to give the user some sort of feedback that the part is in. Yeah. What happens if I just fill it up with all the cards? Yeah, that's your composition, right? That's too much. Uh oh. Oh, cool. Just tell us again, because I don't know if we got it with the mic, what the three rows are. Yeah, so music has three building blocks, rhythm, harmony, and melody. So rhythm could be your drums. Harmony is more the overall vacuum of sound, and the melody is like the main instrument. This applies to most orchestra music. So the bottom row has a track for drums basically, the middle row has tracks for harmony, and the other for melody. And you can make music with multiple cards, that's the whole idea. Great job. Thank you very much. Tell us a little bit about, tell us your name and a little bit about this project. I'm kind of jumping right in, we've been doing this for two hours and fifteen minutes right now, so my brain is We're in the same boat, yeah. Oh yeah, I can't, what am I I can't complain to you about this. Alright, so tell us your name and a little bit about this project. My name is Sevenia, and the project is called Merry Go Sound. So there's eight spindles that are spinning, and there's a sensor here. I was like, what's this loud project over here? Oh no, it's vacuuming. Literally vacuuming. Sorry, why don't you start over, cause I interrupted you. Okay, no worries. There's eight spindles, and there are these discs, which have a sort of pattern on them. And each spindle is assigned a different sound. So as you place the discs and try different combinations, you can generate different melodies and different patterns and rhythms. And so he's hearing the sound from that. He's hearing it, there's a pair of headphones. It's too loud right here, like I get lost. Makes sense, you said, just people watching can't hear. There's another pair of headphones if you want to hear. Yeah, well I'm going to do this. You know I tried that yesterday, and it just didn't work. I tried recording to my phone. We'll see. So I can just take it off? Yeah, just take it off. It feels, cause it's moving, it feels like I don't want to. It can just come right off. Yeah, and what are the lights showing me? When it's on. So if you take them all off, it starts from scratch. Awesome, great job. Here we go, we're going to finish up outside. Okay, I'm not wearing, are you going to be okay? [Jenny] I'm fine. Are you going to be okay? Yeah, I'm fine, I'm like, yeah, I'm good. Alright, we're going to go outside, we're going to finish up. Those are going to be the last two things we're going to look at. We're outside here on Broadway. Fresh air, it's actually not that cold. [Jenny] It kind of is. Oh my god, it's remarkably quiet out here. It's kind of nice. [Jenny] It's very quiet out here. This is like the, it's so peaceful. Okay, so this project here, there's nobody here to explain this to me, oh yeah there is! Hello! Okay. Can you tell us about your name and about your project? Hi, my name is Azalea. Wait, let's start over, because I messed that up. Alright. Hi, my name is Azalea. I'm Ahmathob, and this is Caricatron. Caricatron is a robotic caricature artist. It doesn't understand human faces very well, so it tries its best, it's like, okay, I see a nose here and a little mouth. And yeah, so we can have a look at Caricatron, it'll just take your photo and draw a very poor portrait of you. And have you guys been standing out here since four o'clock? Yeah, more or less. Maybe a little earlier. This feels really refreshing to me. Wow, I just realized you don't have a coat. I know, cause I've been inside. I guess because there's nobody here. No, unfortunately. Alright, we'll take a look at that. We're going to, so I'll stand in front. Yeah, you just stand in front. [Jenny] It's hard to see with the reflections, actually. I think it's much better from this angle. And you built this entire contraption, yes? Yep. Yeah, um. What's, like, how are you getting this kind of like 2D control, what do you need to make that happen? Yeah, we're using CNT Pentclocker actually, it's called the Axidraw, from the robot scientist guy. So that's an Axidraw, but this is actually expanding its space. Exactly, so the Axidraw can draw for that assigned space. And it's just the entire metallic looking, it's actually just pulled for. Thing just extends the range by two and a half lines. And have you said this to Evil Mad Scientist, have they seen it? They have been very helpful. And the way it's drawing actually, is just like a deodorant roller on a touchscreen tablet. So it's just... Maybe we'll need to see this. This is a deodorant roller. Like, from an actual deodorant. From an actual deodorant. And that works on a capacitive touchscreen? It's a resistance touch screen. It's a resistance, so you just need pressure. Exactly. Amazing. That's amazing. [Jenny] Yeah, you can sort of see that a little bit. That's amazing. Awesome, thank you. Okay, should we, let's take a look at this. This is it, by the way. Alright. Oh, I'm getting Breaking News. Russian Hackers released new codes. The White House denies the security breach. Protests of nuclear weapons scheduled around the country. Uh oh, I see a Pinocchio nose. This is amazing. [Jenny] Oh, the reflection is. So who made this project? This was Hao, not here, and a team. Both these are from the... (engines in background) Is it a lot of, the fact that you installed it at once, did that make it kind of easy to install here, or no, did it become its own sort of thing? I think it was slightly easier. A lot of the stuff we kind of made so it was modular so that we could take it out and then put it back somewhere else. I think because people were wanting to show at this show as well, so I guess they thought ahead. Alright, so I'm going to wrap up out here, right, cause we're outside, it's a beautiful night. [Jenny] I'll walk around so you can see the building. So thank you everybody for tuning in to this livestream, I don't have anything meaningful to say at the end. Okay, so let's see. If you want to know more about the projects, you should be able to go to itp.nyu.edu/show, and that will give you a big list of all the projects. If you want to learn more about the programs here, just search for Tisch, that's TISCH School of the Arts. The two programs are ITP and IMA. ITP again, it has its 40th anniversary coming up this fall, IMA has its 3 month anniversary like tomorrow or something. This is the first year of the undergraduate program here. So this video, as soon as we shut this down, this will get archived so you can go back and watch the whole thing at some point in the next couple days. Matua and I will get links to all the projects in the video's description, they won't be there immediately, we'll also probably make an edited version, just like a highlight reel of a bunch of projects, so you can stay tuned for that. And in theory, the audio I think has probably been mostly okay, well who knows. We might try to reupload this entire livestream, but just with the audio from this microphone. This microphone is not actually doing anything right now, dubbed over. Oh, and everybody who's watching this right now, can you please put like some clapping emojis or smiley faces for Jenny, who's been holding this camera the entire time, it's a heroic effort. I think this was our best, our most technically working livestream, right, audio, at least, I can't see the comments, so maybe that's not the case. But at least people can hear. Last year nobody could hear, so that's good. Anything else, any important questions you've seen come through? Alright, I'm sorry. [Jenny] Oh, isn't it cold out here? It is cold. It's about, actually, it is... (bus goes by) It is 44 degrees, according to the temperature that my watch is telling me. It feels colder. That's the, I don't know what bus that is, I was going to say, there's a bus going by. This is going to be like so fun, to just like hop on a bus and keep streaming. We're not going to do that. (Jenny laughs) But now we have like, this is sort of like a thing. Okay, I think you might have to press the stop button. I mean I can come around. We're stopping now. [Jenny] This one? Yes, that turns, that shuts it off. Yes, end.