[SOUND EFFECTS AND APPLAUSE] The following program is brought to you by a grant from the Chugg Group. [MUSIC PLAYING] Hello and welcome to The Anal Retentive Coder. I'm Dean. And today, we're going to make a particle system. To get started with coding, you will need three things, a terminal window application, a code editor application, and a web browser application. I like to have aliases or "shortcuts," as they're also called, arranged on my desktop in advance for all of the things I will use. Let's open these applications in order one at a time. First, the terminal window. I'm going to use the top left corner, line it up exactly. So now, I have my terminal window in the right place. I can get ready to write some code in my code editor. Somehow, I need to get that browser window. Oh, this is awful, but I have to move this over to the side. This is just absolutely wrong, so now this needs to come back over here. I don't want to see any overlap. Oh, but I also don't want to see that background peeking through. OK. Let's see if I can bring this all the way over. Let's move this down. Let's bring this oh, no. Bring this here. This can be a tiny bit smaller. Ah, there we go. I finally have my windows just the way I like them. Now it's time to open up a file to write some code in. I'm going to name the file "index.js." I already have a file there. I'm sure it doesn't have anything important in it, so I'm going to hit Replace. I just want to keep one code file at all times. Much too messy to have so many old versions of things. Before I can go any further, I really should diagram out, work out what I'm going to do. I want to make sure these are the proper whiteboard markers, and I will just draw a small circle. Oh, that is not dark enough. OK. This one is no good, so we're going to put this in the bad marker pile. Oh. That's a really good one. This is a keeper, I think. Let's see if we can get any better. No, that's not better. This will go in the bad marker pile. Oh, wow. That's good. Now, looking at these two circles, this one appears to have the most highest contrast black, so oh, I forgot which one that was. It must be the other one that's in my hand. Let's see if I can recreate that. Oh, yes. So this is definitely our winner in terms of the markers. This one doesn't need to go in the bad pile, though, because it could be used later, so it will go back in the box. Now, my whiteboard is dirty and I need to wash it. How to clean the whiteboard. So the first thing first is to get a paper towel. Let's use two. Fold it once down the middle. Then fold it again, so I have a perfect square paper towel. Now, a little bit of water will help wash the whiteboard, so I have measured out a perfect one shot. I use this later after I finish my coding lesson to put something else in there. I have a very special cup. It's a rhinoceros cup. Isn't it just darling? So I have my one shot of water that I pour from my measuring cup into my rhinoceros cup. And I can pour the water, that one shot of water, onto the paper towel. When you're cleaning a whiteboard, you want to always clean it in perfect vertical motions. I do a practice one right here, up and down, up and down. Then I move over up and down, up and down, up and down, up and down. And then really get it in there, really use all of your verve and strength and oomph. If there's smudges across the top, as there often are, I can also do a perfect horizontal stroke back and forth. This section of the whiteboard is dirtier than this section. Oh, and there's water dripping. Treat your whiteboard just like you would treat your windows and use Windex. Just the good oldfashioned Windex. No need for any environmentally chemicalfree cleaners. I'm going to need many more squares of paper towels in order to clean the whiteboard. So take your paper towel. Roll it out now. Make sure it's a power of two. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8. Now, I need it to somehow be a square. So I want to fold it over so that it's 4by4 and then now 2by2. And I can take this and start going perfectly over as a grid. Down, left, up, left, down, left, up, left, down, left, up, left, down, left.