Hello, and welcome to a new course on the coding train called Working with Data and APIs in JavaScript. So this, I imagine, as a wonderful next step for you. Are you a beginner programmer? Did you maybe just learn JavaScript? Maybe by watching my code programming with P5 Just for Beginners video series? This is the place for you to take a next step. In particular, themed around working with data. I'm going to look at tabular data, CSV, what's a CSV? JSON data. What's JSON? But all of that is really just the warm up, the opening act for the main event. The main attraction, what you're really here to see, which is server side program with node. If you've only ever done P5 JS or other types of client side JavaScript programming, you're missing a big piece of the puzzle in terms of the kinds of web applications that you can build. All the material for this course is broken down into three modules. The first module is just some client side JavaScript basics, some native JavaScript building blocks for what I'm going to do in modules 2 and 3, and there I'm going to build full stack web applications. The two projects I'm going to make, one is called the data selfie app and the other one is called the weather here. They're both based on projects by Joey Lee who develop these sample projects as part of his teaching at ITP, and of course, [INAUDIBLE]. So I'm going to go from start to finish to build two web applications for you, and hopefully, you'll be able to build on what I make and create your own web applications. If you happen to make a project, your own creative project, you can go to the coding train dot com, where there's a page for the course, and you'll be able to share links to the projects you make there. Before I get started with module 1, there's one more introductory video that will come next. That's just going to go over what do you need to have installed on your computer, what kind of tools do you need, what kind of prerequisite knowledge you need to have before you get started with the video, so take a look at that. And hope you enjoyed this ride on the coding train, Working with Data and APIs in JavaScript.