In this video, we'll discuss running a simple Android app on a real Android device. The first step in running our app on a real device will be to prep the device itself. First, we'll want to enable USB debugging. A USB debugging is a feature, which will allow the device to send and receive special data, like an app APK file. The exact process for enabling this may differ depending on the type of device and version of operating system you're using, so if these instructions don't work, be sure to Google how to do it on your specific device. But for the large majority of devices simply follow these instructions. In the settings menu, we're gonna scroll down to about phone and then to the build number section. Once we click the build number seven times, a developer options item should pop up. We can click this, and inside, toggle the USB debugging setting. So now that that's done and USB debugging is turned on, you want to connect your Android device to your computer's USB port. In some cases, you may need to confirm on your device that you want to be able to transfer media or files that are on your computer once it's plugged in. So now the phone is connected, inside Android studio, go up to run, and then click run app. In the dialog window that pops up, there should be two sections, connected devices and available virtual devices. In the connected devices section, you should see your pluggedin phone. If you don't see it, click the "don't see your device" link at the bottom right of the window, and follow the instructions in the wizard that opens. It will, once again, prompt you to turn on USB debugging and also, restart the Android debug bridge. If your device is still not showing up at this point, it's recommended that you try a new USB cord and check to make sure your device's software is up to date. With the device showing up select it and click OK. At this point, you may be prompted with an option for setting up instant run, this will make it easier and faster to view changes and debug your app on your physical device but it will require you to download the version of Android running on your phone inside of Android Studio. If it's required, the installation should only take a few seconds and the app should automatically load up on your phone. As you can see, the app looks exactly the same on your physical device as it does in the app builder interface. And when you make a change to the app, you can click the apply changes button to propagate them to the physical device. Now, this might take a few seconds but the app should update on its own once apply changes is selected. And then, when you unplug the phone, the developed app will remain on your phone for you to continue playing around with.