My name is Pablo, I live in Tampa, Florida, and I built a career as a QA Engineer by learning code from Codecademy. Before QA, I was doing customer support — helping people with computer issues and software issues. I'm originally from Colombia and I ended up moving to the States right after I graduated. I have a degree in Electrical Engineering, but I wasn't getting any chances as an Engineer. I was kind of stuck, basically. I wanted to get out of customer service. And someone offered me a chance with something called QA. I didn't know what it was, but I wanted to move up so I just took it. But I knew I needed to expand my knowledge in automation — basically writing code to test code. So I found a course on Ruby on Codecademy. I was able to write a few Ruby scripts. I found that I was really good at finding issues. I see it as always trying to improve. My thought process is always, "Why was this process designed this way? Is it really efficient? And what if I do this? What if I do that? How is it going to behave?" The way I got into racing — as a kid, I've always been into cars. And I had a little toy car. I was always very curious. What was making it move? Why couldn't it go faster? So I took everything apart — sometimes I could put it back together, sometimes I could make it better. After I took the Python course on Codecademy, it helped me identify the data that I get from the race track. I coach other people in how to take their data, analyze it, so they can go faster. Whether you're applying too much brake pressure, how much throttle you're putting in, is the APS kicking in, that kind of stuff. So, I used that to go into the car's computer, change some parameters, to make it go faster or make it so my application — this is how it works from the factory, I want to make it better. Going out there, driving, as fast as I can, everything just kind of disappears. I just feel at peace. In order to grow as a Developer, you need to practice. There's no way around it. Relate the code to something that's personal. Never give up.