With timestamps:

00:00 - If you want to make a [videogame]
00:00 - But don't know where to start this video should help on you in the right direction.
00:04 - Making games is a complicated subject.
00:06 - But let's try and break it down.
00:08 - When the big studios create games.
00:09 - They do so in large teams. Each person has a specific role.
00:12 - Whether that be 3D modeling, programming, doing concept art or sound design.
00:16 - In reality though most people don't start with the team of professionals.
00:19 - More just a single laptop and some good ideas. That´s at least how I got into it.
00:23 - Luckily over the last few years.
00:24 - There's been a big boom in the Indie games industry.
00:27 - Now small teams or even individuals can make hugely popular games.
00:30 - Such as SUPERHOT and Undertale just to name a few.
00:35 - Every video game runs on what is called a game engine.
00:38 - The engine is what tells the components in the computer stuff like how to render graphics or play audio.
00:42 - Games such as Half-life 2, Counter-strike and Portal all run on the [source] engine.
00:48 - Which is also why they have so many things in common when it comes to physics, graphics quality and gameplay?
00:52 - Previously game studios would have to spend a huge amount of work creating an engine from scratch
00:57 - Or purchase a pre-existing one from another studio
00:59 - Which was not cheap?
01:01 - But these days a lot of independent engines have been made with the sole purpose of people using them to build their games on top
01:06 - This brings us to the first decision an aspiring game developer has to make.
01:10 - What engine should I choose and the answer is?
01:13 - Well it depends. There are a lot of engines to choose from and they each have their strengths and weaknesses
01:18 - But here are some of the most popular ones.
01:20 - If you're interested in making a 2-d game and want to start with something not too difficult
01:24 - I find that game maker is pretty easy to pick up. Some examples of games made using game maker are Spelunky, Undertale and INK
01:31 - Game maker is essentially free however some features do require you to purchase a license
01:35 - I don't find most of these too important for beginners
01:38 - But do note that you can only export to windows using the free version.
01:41 - Unity however allows you to build games in both 2D and 3D that can be exported to a variety of platforms.
01:47 - Being currently the biggest player when it comes to Indie development
01:50 - Unity has powered games such as Hearthstone, Superhot and Kerbal space program
01:54 - Unity is also used by a lot of mobile developers
01:57 - Unreal engine is probably the most advanced of the three.
01:59 - It's an amazing engine for more experienced developers who are looking to make 3D games?
02:03 - But I wouldn't recommend it as a starting point.
02:05 - It's known for powering some really heavy games like
02:08 - Unreal tournament, Gears of War and Arkham Knight.
02:10 - Now some of you might know that I'm a bit 
biased here
02:12 - After all my entire YouTube channel is build around Unity.
02:15 - But I do believe that Unity is the perfect starting point for most developers. This is not because it does everything perfectly.
02:21 - No engine does.
02:22 - But because of the diversity.
02:23 - Unity supports both 2D and 3D games and deploys to both the web, desktop, mobile and console.
02:29 - Also when programming in Unity you can choose between C-Sharp and Javascript.
02:33 - Two widely adopted programming languages.
02:35 - So what you learn in Unity can easily be applied to other environments later down the road
02:39 - That's why I've decided to make a short series on how you can make your first game in Unity.
02:43 - The video seems to teach a bit about everything so that no matter if you want to become an artist, a level designer or programmer you will hopefully find it Useful
02:50 - So click on the screen now to be taken to the first video once it's out
02:53 - And that's pretty much it for this video
02:54 - If you liked it consider subscribing also if you want to see more videos like this one
02:58 - You can support me over at Patreon (Patreon.com/brackeys).
03:02 - Thanks for watching and I will see you in the next video
03:05 - Thanks to all the awesome patreon supporters who donated in December and a special
03:09 - Thanks to Sultan al-Sharif, Derrick Heemskerk, Faisal Marafie
03:12 - James Calhoun, Robert Bonham and Jason Lotito.
03:16 - If you want to become a patron yourself you can do so at Patreon.com/brackeys

Cleaned transcript:

If you want to make a [videogame] But don't know where to start this video should help on you in the right direction. Making games is a complicated subject. But let's try and break it down. When the big studios create games. They do so in large teams. Each person has a specific role. Whether that be 3D modeling, programming, doing concept art or sound design. In reality though most people don't start with the team of professionals. More just a single laptop and some good ideas. That´s at least how I got into it. Luckily over the last few years. There's been a big boom in the Indie games industry. Now small teams or even individuals can make hugely popular games. Such as SUPERHOT and Undertale just to name a few. Every video game runs on what is called a game engine. The engine is what tells the components in the computer stuff like how to render graphics or play audio. Games such as Halflife 2, Counterstrike and Portal all run on the [source] engine. Which is also why they have so many things in common when it comes to physics, graphics quality and gameplay? Previously game studios would have to spend a huge amount of work creating an engine from scratch Or purchase a preexisting one from another studio Which was not cheap? But these days a lot of independent engines have been made with the sole purpose of people using them to build their games on top This brings us to the first decision an aspiring game developer has to make. What engine should I choose and the answer is? Well it depends. There are a lot of engines to choose from and they each have their strengths and weaknesses But here are some of the most popular ones. If you're interested in making a 2d game and want to start with something not too difficult I find that game maker is pretty easy to pick up. Some examples of games made using game maker are Spelunky, Undertale and INK Game maker is essentially free however some features do require you to purchase a license I don't find most of these too important for beginners But do note that you can only export to windows using the free version. Unity however allows you to build games in both 2D and 3D that can be exported to a variety of platforms. Being currently the biggest player when it comes to Indie development Unity has powered games such as Hearthstone, Superhot and Kerbal space program Unity is also used by a lot of mobile developers Unreal engine is probably the most advanced of the three. It's an amazing engine for more experienced developers who are looking to make 3D games? But I wouldn't recommend it as a starting point. It's known for powering some really heavy games like Unreal tournament, Gears of War and Arkham Knight. Now some of you might know that I'm a bit biased here After all my entire YouTube channel is build around Unity. But I do believe that Unity is the perfect starting point for most developers. This is not because it does everything perfectly. No engine does. But because of the diversity. Unity supports both 2D and 3D games and deploys to both the web, desktop, mobile and console. Also when programming in Unity you can choose between CSharp and Javascript. Two widely adopted programming languages. So what you learn in Unity can easily be applied to other environments later down the road That's why I've decided to make a short series on how you can make your first game in Unity. The video seems to teach a bit about everything so that no matter if you want to become an artist, a level designer or programmer you will hopefully find it Useful So click on the screen now to be taken to the first video once it's out And that's pretty much it for this video If you liked it consider subscribing also if you want to see more videos like this one You can support me over at Patreon (Patreon.com/brackeys). Thanks for watching and I will see you in the next video Thanks to all the awesome patreon supporters who donated in December and a special Thanks to Sultan alSharif, Derrick Heemskerk, Faisal Marafie James Calhoun, Robert Bonham and Jason Lotito. If you want to become a patron yourself you can do so at Patreon.com/brackeys
