Hey, how's it going? It's your bro here and I hope your day is going well And in this video series, I'm going to teach you guys C++ for free I'm not here to try and sell you some course because I'm your bro, and I have your back My lessons are free and they always will be if you want to learn C++. Look no further because you're in the right place Let's get into it Let's begin by discussing the advantages of C++ over other programming languages So C++ is a fast language. In fact, it is great for games If not, the best programming language for games because of its speed So if you ever want to get into game development, I would highly recommend learning C++ at least at some point Maybe not as your first language, but eventually you want to learn this So C++ is also portable between different operating systems such as Windows Mac and Linux C++ also supports objectoriented programming and C++ jobs are in demand currently at least in my geographical location starting salaries for new C++ developers are starting at least at $60,000 per year, but that also depends on your geographical location as well And if we talk about the advantages, we also need to discuss the disadvantages of C++ over other languages. So C++ is a Difficult language to learn I would not recommend it for your first language Now if you're watching this video and you're trying to decide on what you should learn for your very first programming language I would recommend a few other things instead of C++ Just because C F plus plus is a more difficult language to learn if you go to my channel I actually have a few different playlists and if you're undecided on what you want to learn I would recommend starting with Python just because I would say that it's the easiest programming language to learn compared to all the others and other Disadvantages of C++ is the use of pointers and you'll learn what these are later misuse of them may make your system crash There is no too little security with C++ and there is no garbage collection But remember that all programming languages have certain advantages and disadvantages the advantages I would say far outweigh the disadvantages Well, what are the uses of C++? Well, I'm glad you asked it's used for many popular applications from web browsers to databases to desktop apps It's because the language is so fast and efficient that any application that's requiring a lot of processing power They actually better be using C++ because it's one of the fastest languages C++ is also used for many engines and for example it's used in Unreal Engine because of its speed and it's also compatible with many embedded systems for electronic devices and microcontrollers the C programming language might be better for this but C++ also has the capability to be used for these embedded systems as well as an option now You're probably wondering hey, bro. What do I need to start programming in this language? Well to answer your question What I would recommend is downloading an IDE. That's an acronym for integrated development Environment it's basically software that helps us write other software and there's a few recommendations of mine You just got to pick one of these I would probably recommend Microsoft Visual Studio to begin. Otherwise, there's a package for Eclipse for C and C++ developers Otherwise, there's code blocks, but I think that's a little outdated now, but personally I prefer Microsoft Visual Studio because you can also use it for csharp and there's some packages you can download for game development, which is pretty cool So if you guys have no preference I'll walk you guys through how to download Microsoft Visual Studio If you have a different iv'e in mind feel free to use that one too to begin We need to open up the interwebs go to any web browser and double click it to open up the interwebs good Step one is complete step two is to go to google and look this up Microsoft Visual Studio code and then you'll want to look up the community version and it should be this link here Visual Studio community and We're going to download Visual Studio And we are going to close out of this because we do not like popup ads and If you're running Windows you have to open this when done if you're using Mac I believe you have to drag this to your Applications folder. I'm not a Mac user. So I'm not 100% sure on that We're going to click yes And we're going to wait here a while click continue and You're gonna have to wait again. Well, you should be brought to a screen such as this one scroll down and click these two boxes Desktop development with C++ as well as Universal Windows platform development Just so you know, there's other packages you can download as well. You can use Visual Studio community for csharp unity and C++ game development. So keep those in mind you can always select those two if you want. Alright, then we're going to click install We don't feel like taking a survey right now. So we're going to click not now and We'll continue waiting. Well, welcome back. We're just going to click this launch button Sign in with the Microsoft account. Otherwise click not now maybe later All right so with the development settings, you'll want to go to Visual C++ and Then you can choose a color theme the standard is blue But if you want to feel like a pretend elite hacker, you can select dark mode. And for now we will continue without code Here at the home screen we'll want to go to the top file new project and We'll scroll down to C++ console app. Click Next we'll need a project name. Call this whatever you want. I'll call mine hello YouTube and You can set a location for your project I'm going to set it to a folder on my desktop or you can keep this as the default It doesn't matter and you can pick a solution name a solution is basically like a grouping of projects here It says a container for one or more projects. You can just keep it the same if you want and we're going to click create Now let me show you guys where you'd want to create a new C++ file So go to your solution Explorer and for some reason if you don't have this window or you can't find it Let's just pretend that we closed out of it You want to go to the top toolbar? View solution Explorer and you do have the option of moving this around if you prefer this in a different spot and you'll want to go to source files and There may or may not be a file here already So this is like a test file and it's actually right here behind our solution Explorer if I can move it. All right Yeah So this is our test file and all this does is that it displays the words hello world and you can actually run this just by clicking the screen play button and If you did have that file a small console window that says hello world should appear However, you might have a different color scheme because I've changed this in past tutorials, but at the end of the video I'll show you guys how we can actually change the color scheme for this as well All right. So let's say that you don't have this file Hello YouTube dot CPP or whatever else you name this so, let's just say that we delete this so we'll remove it Now to create a new file go to solution Explorer source files right click add new item then click C++ file then next you'll need a name for this. I think I'll just call this main that works then click Add All right. Let me shift some things around Why is this so difficult? Okay, this should be good enough So I zoomed in a little bit if you want to zoom in on your code You can go to the bottom left of the window and you can change it here I think 250 is a good amount for this video at least Alright, so we have a blank C++ file. Let's create a program where we display text to the council window Well now you should have a blank C++ file If you want to create a program to display some text to that console window like we did before this is what you're gonna type at the top a Hashtag like it's a Twitter hashtag type in the word include Less than sign greater than sign and within these two symbols type IO stream What we just typed This is a header file library It lets us work with input and output next hit enter to go down one or two lines It doesn't matter and then we're going to type int Main parentheses than a set of curly brackets. So what this is this is the main method so this is the entrance point to our program and when we run the program it's going to execute any code within the main method from the top and It's gonna work its way down Now let's say that you want to display some output to the console window. This is what you type type in STD and that is short for standard and I'm not referring to sexually transmitted diseases Then you need a set of colons then type and C out, which is short for Output and when you combine these both together, it means standard output Then next you need a set of less than signs this passes information to our standard output to display to the console window and Then next you can type in some text to display to that console window simply by putting it within a set of double quotes So here you can type in the typical hello world But I like to be different on this channel and I'll type something else So for your project why don't you type in some lyrics to a song you like and then post it in the comments down below because I would like To read it. So for one song that I like I'm going to type in this And then finish everything off with a semicolon, alright, let's run the program Yep in here the lyrics however, everything here is kind of compressed You can actually add a new line to the end of this so it gives you some more room So we're going to go back to our code to do that So if you want to add a new line just type in Backslash and and that is a newline character. So let's rerun this Here's the lyrics that we had before. Plus it added a new line after our lyrics which we intended So if you're annoyed by having your code on a separate panel or window, you can just drag and drop these So it's all like on the same window then so it's a little bit more convenient to work with Alright, so next let's say that you want to add a second line of text Well, you just type in the same thing basically, so STD to colons see out two sets of less than signs and then if you want to type in some Words like lyrics you just put it within a set of double quotes. So I'll type in the next line for this set of lyrics And then we have the option of finishing this off with a new line and Then don't forget that something I call it at the end. All right, so let's run this and Here's the results It says never gonna give you up. Never gonna let you down So you can have multiple lines to display output if you so wish and in the next video We'll be discussing more on how we can display output so before we wrap up this video let me show you guys a few tricks that we can use to change the color scheme of the IDE as well as the Text and the color of the console window. So let's say that you don't like your current IDE color theme Let's say that you don't like this dark theme. I don't know why you wouldn't if you want to change it go to tools options And then you can change it here. You could go to let's say blue then hit OK and this should change the color scheme But that is very hard in the eyes, but some people might prefer this and they prefer to be blinded But I'm going to go back to dark Because I am a pretend elite hacker if you want to zoom in or out of your code, you can change that here in the bottom left corner of your window you Can either pick one of these few settings or you can type in a number that you'd like I think 250 for me is a good amount So lastly, you can change the color scheme of the console window that displays more specifically this one I think the default is white text on black background if you want to change that Actually, I already changed mine. But if you want to change it, click the top left corner, then go to properties and Then here you can change the font size You can change the cursor size the layout of the window size the colors Actually, let me pick a new font That's close enough Alright, and then you can change the colors here. You could have like green on green background, which I would not recommend I think I'll stick with the reading text on black background. Oh, I guess you can also change the opacity. Ooh, that's kind of neat Then just click OK with any changes and you can see that I changed the font style slightly so that's how you can change the Appearance of your console window so that will conclude this introduction to C++ in the next video we will get more in depth with displaying output and Eliminating some redundancies that we have here I'll explain how that works in the next video, but I'll also include some useful links in the description down below So this video was very exhausting to make feel free to smash that like button and drop a comment down below But yeah, that is everything you need to know to get started programming in C++ Hey you if you enjoyed this lesson Then you can help me Help you in 3 easy steps by smashing that like button Drop a comment down below and subscribe if you'd like to become a fellow, bro