what's up people so today I got to explain Constructors in JavaScript a Constructor is a special method for defining the properties and methods of objects in Prior videos we've constructed objects like this we would declare an object assign it some properties and some methods you know this works but what if we have to create a lot of objects here I'm manually creating three different car objects that can be a lot of work what we could do instead is use a Constructor to construct these objects automatically Al all we have to do to construct these objects is pass in some unique data to the Constructor to construct these objects here's an example we are going to create a function car do pay attention to the capitalization we'll need to set up some parameters what sorts of properties will we accept when we construct a car object how about a make model year and color these are arguments we'll receive when we construct a car object to assign these properties we're going to use the this keyword doake equals the make that we receive let's do this with model this do model equals the model we receive this doe equals year this do color equals color that's good enough for now our car Constructor is a reusable method where we can define the properties and methods of objects we create to use this Constructor I will create an instance of an object I will use const car one will be our first object equals we'll need to use the new keyword type the name of the Constructor car car is a special method we'll need to pass in some arguments we'll need a make model year and color in that order my first car feel free to send some different data to the Constructor but for me my first car will be be a Ford make sure each value is comma separated Mustang the year will be 2024 and the color will be red we should now have a car object with the name of car 1 and I'm going to console.log car 1's properties car 1. make Ford let's do this with the other properties we have model Mustang year 2024 and color red now this method is reusable we can reuse it to create other car objects let's create const Car 2 equals new car we'll pass in different data this time the make will be chevr a I will pick a Camaro the year 2025 and the color will be blue now I can display car 2's properties let's Select Car 2. make car 2. model car 2. year car 2.cor we have a Chevy Camaro year 2025 the color is blue let's create one more car same process as before const car 3 equals new car I'll go with a Dodge charger the year 2026 and the color will be silver let's access car 3's properties car 3. make car 3. model car 3. year car 3.or Dodge Charger 2026 the color is silver another thing with these parameters too you can name these parameters anything when we assign these properties it can be kind of confusing like this. make equals make really we write our Constructors this way just for readability technically this would work if we renamed our parameters for example make will be parameter a model will be B year is C color is D then be sure to change these when we assign them A B C D this would still work however this Constructor isn't as readable like what the heck is a b c and d it would be good practice to clearly Define our parameters for readability purposes all right now let's add a method we'll take this. Drive equals a function we console.log I'll use a template string you drive the I'll add a placeholder this. model with Cars 1 through three let's use the drive method car 1. drive you drive the Mustang car 2. drive you drive the Camaro and K 3. drive you drive the charger all right everybody so that's a Constructor it's a special method for defining the properties and methods of objects it helps with code reusability we can reuse it to create many objects instead of having to type them all out manually and well everybody those are Constructors in JavaScript