Hello! I’m Justin from STEAM for Vietnam. I’m collaborating with the Scratch Team to explore creating a culturally and geographically relevant asset pack in the Scratch editor that can be shared with other Scratchers around the globe. Hi, I'm Maren (a.k.a. algorithmar from the Scratch Team). To start creating an original sprite or asset pack, you’ll want to sign in to your account and start a new project. Click “Create” in the header. Note You can create assets using the offline editor or without being logged in to the online editor. But you'll need to save your project to your computer in order to save your work or share later. You could upload an image or sound, or edit sprites that are already in the Scratch library to create an asset. But for this example, Justin is going to show us how to create an original sprite by drawing a costume. Hover over the sprite menu in the lowerright corner of the sprite area and choose “Paint,” which brings you to a blank costume window under the Costumes tab. There are two modes for drawing in Scratch. Bitmapmode allows you to edit photos and paint with pixels. Vectormode allows you to create and edit shapes. If you're creating your own sprites, it's important you stay in the default vectormode to create your artwork. Vectormode allows users to adjust colors, change the shape of an object in the costume, add and remove elements, etc. If users remix your assets, this flexibility is important. Now, back to Justin. Let's get into drawing the bowl of phở. First, I’ll choose the circle [tool] here. For the bowl, I would like to use the fill color that’s slightly orange. And then I’ll choose an outline of the rim of the bowl that’s slightly brown. Awesome! Now, I will start drawing. Hit “alt” or “option” to drag from the middle. And then, I can use this tool, (“Select” tool) to move around. Hmm, now the rim seems a little thin. I will increase it, probably to ten. Next step I'm going to make the bottom of the bowl. I will use this and hit “Copy” and “Paste.” Then, I'll move it to the back. I'll drag it down a little bit here. And then, I'll change the fill color to more slightly orange. And I will choose the outline color [that is the] same using the color picker tool. Next, I use this “Reshape” tool. I click on the top point and then I hit “Delete.” Next, let's draw some phở noodles in there. To draw the phở noodles, I’m going to use the “Line” [tool]. And then, the phở noodle is usually white. I’ll drag it to here. The thickness is ten for now. The noodles is usually wavy, right? So how can we do that? I'll use a “Reshape” tool. Click on here. Choosing this point, and then hit “Curved.” Then, I can move this handle to adjust the curve like I want. If you, by chance, hit another point and then hit “Create,” you can always hit “Back” or delete that point. Now, let's make some wavy noodles in a bowl. Use the “Select” tool. Copy and paste. Use the “Reshape” tool. A bowl of noodles! Next, let's add some beef in here. So, in phở, I like to have brisket. So, we’re going to draw a shape that looks like a rounded rectangle. Okay, so how should we do that? First, we choose the “Circle” tool. It's usually cooked to mediumrare or medium. So I’ll use this color. I will choose the “Reshape” tool. Make the top handles longer to make it look more like a rounded thing. Now, [to make] this piece look more 3D a little bit [hit] “Copy” and “Paste,” and offset it diagonally and bring [it] to the back. I will change the color to slightly darker. Use the “Select” tool. Choose the two shapes. Group it. Bring it to our bowl of phở here. Next, we're going to put some basil leaves in here. I'll make one of it slightly darker color so it can separate out. Finally, we will draw a slice of lime in here. Okay, here's a tip. If you want to do a perfect circle, you can hit “Shift” on your keyboard while you're dragging it. I would use the “Reshape” tool. Delete this bottom point This slice of lime will be a half circle. I will make a slightly smaller white half circle in here. I will draw two white lines to make it look like a slice of lime. Phở actually does have some scallions in there, but I don't like it on my phở, so... Voila! We have a bowl of phở here. While it isn't required, consider creating at least two costumes for your sprite to show animation or variation. You can duplicate a costume to quickly create another version by simply rightclicking on the costume you want to copy and then choose “Duplicate” from the menu. You could create alternative looks by adding or removing elements, or changing colors. Or, you can think of how your sprite might be animated, with each costume serving as a frame of the animation. So now, when you click alternatively between two costumes, [it is] moving just like the elements were floating in a bowl of soup. Be sure to also name the sprite. You can change the name in the sprite area by entering new text in the field next to “Sprite.” Even though it is optional, considering adding at least one related sound for each sprite you create. Select the “Sound” tab. Hover over the Sound menu at the bottom of the tab and choose to upload a sound or record your own. Here, I'm going to make a sound of my compliment when I am eating phở, in Vietnamese. [Vietnamese] Dạ, ngon quá đi. The thing I just said means, “Oh, it’s so delicious.” Once your sound is recorded, you can use the sound editor to make edits like changing the length or adjusting the volume. I took a picture of the local phở restaurant in Vietnam. You can upload an image or picture as a sprite. If you want to create a backdrop asset, you can add one using the Backdrops menu. However, when creating an asset pack to share, we recommend creating your backdrop as a sprite instead. Backdrops created as sprites can be more easily exported. Especially when they contain sounds or multiple versions. I can click this “Convert to Vector” button to change it to vector format, which allows me to move it around as an object if I want to resize or reposition it. When your asset pack project is ready, name your project and share it to the online community by clicking the “Share” button. Now, your asset can be remixed and used by others. To help others find your asset pack, you can look for studios that match the theme of your asset pack, or for studios that are specifically collecting asset packs. Now that we've explored creating an asset, in our next video, we'll talk about using another user's asset from their asset pack in your projects.