Kick off the day with a keynote session. I think it's a really special one. We're really lucky to have as a moderator of the session Ricarose Roque, who's a, so it's great to have Ricarose back, she's a former member of the Scratch team here at MIT is now a professor at the University of Colorado, I think it's really appropriate that Ricarose is moderating the session because while she was here on a Scratch team she did a lot to both support and study the online community, of work with all the young people who are interacting in the community and collaborating in the community in so many ways, so Ricarose did her dissertation here on family creative learning, and has continued to extend that work with her research in Colorado, and it's great to have her back with three longtime members of the Scratch community to talk about their experiences in growing up with Scratch, so let me welcome Ricarose and other panel members to the stage. (audience applauds) Hi everyone it's so good to see you all and I'm so excited about this panel, when I joined the team in 2010, and for the six years I was part of the team, there's so many things about it that I loved, I loved working with the team, it was nice to be Mitch's advisee, also getting to know you all through the different gatherings, but one of the things that I loved the most was interacting with the Scratchers, Scratch members, but also call them Scratchers, one of the things that really caught me as we were working in the community and watching what was happening, was seeing the ways that young people were growing up in the community, they might start when they're 10 or 12, and suddenly they're looking at colleges and they're still Scratching and they're introducing others to Scratch, and it's just so wonderful to see the different ways that they were growing and learning and connecting with each other, So it's such a pleasure to bring three of them here today, over here is Bella and Jocelyn and JT, they're gonna introduce themselves a bit more, so I thought maybe you could say a brief thing about yourselves and then we're gonna show something about each of them. Hi my name is Isabella, I have been Scratching for about five years now, I'm from LA and my username is Bellamai on Scratch. hi I'm Jocelyn Marencik, I've been Scratching also for about five years, I'm from Richmond, Virginia and my Scratch username is CrazyNimbus. Hey my name is JT I've been Scratching for almost 5 years now, I'm from Sheldon, North Carolina and my username is St19_galla, I'm sorry my teacher made us. (audience laughs) You've talked to your teacher recently? Yes, so technically Gala in the last name is a break of the community guidelines, so I had to let her know. (mumbles) (audience laughs) Just as a pro tip as you're creating new user names. I thought as a nice way to start getting to know them that they could share their very first Scratch project, so we all remember ours, I thought we could share some of theirs, so let's start with, here's Bella's. Let me refresh it so you get the full experience. (animals calling) Do you wanna say a little bit about the project? (audience laughs) Yes as you can see it has a very complex storyline, yeah this is my first project, it was right after I figured out how to use Scratch, and I got familiar with what the blocks mean, and I just took a couple of the most selfexplanatory blocks, put them together and I was actually really proud that I was able to make something on my first day using Scratch, and as you can see it's very simple, I just repeated the same little loop over and over again. Cool. (audience applauds) Share it gracefully. Here's my first project ever, if I just move the mouse. As you can see the car moves perfectly sideways. It goes around in a circle, and if you touch the green at all you lose. I was just happy to create something on my first day, just like Bella was, and then just not too long after that I joined the community. Cool. (audience applauds) I notice it had 22,000 views. My first project did not have that many. So here's JT's, do you wanna preface it or should I start playing it? You might not be able to tell because I'm a crosscountry runner, but I love food, I especially love doughnuts, and yeah I just decided to do something with doughnuts, so here's my disco donut. (audience laughs) So I'm curious actually how did you find out about Scratch? My dad actually introduced Scratch to me just one day when I was in sixth grade, he said hey check out this really cool website, because he is a programmer himself, and so he saw this something fun, inviting that I would be interested in, and right away the colors and the community, And just how much fun the website looked, it drew me in, and I was so excited to get started. So I joined when I did a Google search for different kinds of programming languages that I could use to teach myself how to code, so I originally joined to learn how to make games, but then after that I kept expanding to art and animation and stories, and so much more, as soon as I saw the community was giving so much positive feedback. I'm curious actually how did you know about programming, did you hear about it I heard about it from a few of my friends one day, they were like, oh, I just coded this little thing that can make my computer change colors or something, and I was like that sounds cool, what is coding, and then I looked it up and I got so interested in it and I discovered Scratch, and then I got so much further now it's been great. Cool, how about you JT, how did you first hear about it? Yeah, so mine was from a teacher like I mentioned, it was actually a weeklong unit in my general computer class in seventh grade, and so after that week though after sharing some projects and seeing people interact with them, I had no clue who they were, but seeing their positive feedback from all across the world, I just had to stick with it. Does your teacher know that you're still on Scratch and doing things? Yeah I email her every now and then to keep updated on different things I've been doing, And she loves it, she always mentions me with her new class because she keeps the program going and sometimes I'll Skype in with them, and introduce them to Scratch. I haven't Skype with my teachers, that's awesome you keep in touch with her. So Jocelyn you mentioned the community, so how did you first find out about the community, was it something you saw immediately or? Right after I shared the first project that I shared which was a dance project, different than the first project that you saw there, I started getting some feedback in ways that I could improve, so not just I like this or this is cool, I got ideas for it maybe you could add another character doing something, or you can add a feature where they get scored based on certain ways they move and things like that, so after seeing that feedback and adding products to studios and collaborating and all the different comments, and the welcoming committee when I first joined, I knew that this was a very positive community and decided to keep going. I wanted to show something as you mentioned in your own case, because I know people have a different experience here with the Scratch community, I think sometimes when I talk to people they see the website and they think it's a place to share projects, but I think something that might not be obvious right away until you start clicking and digging in, and seeing that there's this really dynamic community of young people participating in it, and actually when you first join and make an account, I won't be able to sign in here because I've been in the Scratch community for some time, but on this site you will see something like the welcoming committee you mentioned Jocelyn, I wonder if I could Google search welcoming committee, oh look, when I Google welcoming committee there's a project by CrazyNimbus. (audience laughs) That was a guide for helping people who would like to join the welcoming committee. Yes that's my voice. So yeah I also have a normal welcoming project in there too, so basically what we do in there is I've been a coordinator in the welcoming committee for a while now, or a curator or a person that's helping new members, so I've been showing them where they can go on the website, where they can get started if they're feeling stuck, and then showing them where they can show off their projects and get positive feedback from each other, such as the discussion forums, and it's been a very pleasant experience with all the new members and watching them grow, it's like watching a kid grow up, watching them do more and more amazing things with each other in the community. I agree, I think it's really lovely watching people interact in the community, over time especially, Bella I'm curious what were your early experiences like? My earliest experience in the Scratch community was actually on my first day of Scratch, I remember when I first opened up the create page and was about to make my first project, I had no clue how it works at all, there's a little yes right there, so the gray space is where you're supposed to drag the blocks and put something together, but I just remember for a solid 15 minutes trying to drag the blocks into the stage and that's not at all how it works, and I was extremely confused as to why nothing was happening, and then I went on the Scratch homepage and saw you can actually look at tons of different Scratchers projects, and see inside look at their code, and it's just extremely interactive, so I remember browsing projects for a while, finally figuring out how it worked, and that's actually how I made my very first Scratch friend, and yeah he actually would give me feedback, I remember we would comment on each other's profiles and ask how do you do this, help each other out, and actually on my first project you can see he commented. Yeah let's see, see project page. (audience laughs) Great to have someone right there supporting you. (audience laughs) Speaking of which, we were also looking at, JT now you just posted this even though Yeah it wasn't originally shared so I had to share it for this conference. But I notice the comments here are really sweet, LifaytheGoblin, if you don't know LifaytheGoblin's a pretty awesome Scratcher as well, did this keynote four years ago, left a comment, oh JT so cool. Did you know I made a disco cat as a first project. So I'm curious, Bella you mentioned your first friend, and we're seeing some people here, on squares101, for example, so they're meeting from the very beginning, from those early experiences what made you keep coming back, you're mentioning feedback, what else was keeping you in the community? For me it was just how supportive everyone was, and how friendly everyone was, it was just constant like you said positive feedback, just everyone was so ready to help, and there are also these things on Scratch called studios, and they're really fun, it's almost like a mini website on Scratch, because you can add in your projects, there's a comments section, people can join and be creators, people can follow, it's like a mini community, and so there are just a lot of things like that that just help people find similar interests, and talk to each other, this one's for shark week, you can see there's a description, people can share their projects, and just like little features like this on the Scratch website that are so different from everything else, because I always say this, a lot of people think of coding as what they see in movies, when there's a hacker trying to get in and you see the lines of code, it's not always like that, and of course that is coding too, but just seeing something like this that is young kids and adults alike programming and forming community, it's just so different and that's what kept me coming back, just having the space to share. Yeah mine was pretty much the same, I started with Panel2C, it's another Scratch team member, he's a moderator, and he loved Pi Day, and he actually created a Pi Day studio for 2014, and I helped him curate it for that, and it was just supercool seeing all the different people get super excited about the same topic, like everyone that you didn't even know people from around the world, just coming together and getting excited about one thing, and leaving comments, wow this is supercool, I love Pi everyone just getting behind a similar topic it's something that was just amazing to see. And speaking of studios, about once every month we have a Scratch Design Studio on the homepage with all different types of products, this month we have symmetry, and we've been Scratch Design Studio curators for a while the two of us, and it's been great seeing a variety of different projects but Scratchers come up with with this one theme, we get collaborations, we get solo projects, all kinds of different things that people are making, and just another positive community within the community. Can you say more about what a Scratch design curator is? Yeah so Scratch Design Studio curators are able to leave comments to other Scratchers and add projects, so we basically lead the Design Studio through more feedback and helping each other along the way. Yeah it's like a month long studio, it usually runs a month, and it's featured on the homepage, it's like the fourth row I think, and the website just chooses random projects in the studio to be featured on the homepage, which is really awesome because it's a great way to All different perspectives. Yeah it highlights the other people's ideas and have your project able to be seen by the people as well, so yeah it's just a monthlong thing, people will come if they link to the project you have added and then will make sure it fits the theme, and then added and everyone really gets to join in on the experience. Yeah I love seeing the projects that come in for the Design Studio, it's especially a fun way for Scratchers who are looking for something to do if they're fairly new it's like a nice creative constraint to help people get started. Okay so how long have you been Design Studio curators? Probably about three or four years now. Yeah four years for me. Oh my gosh. And how has it evolved as you've been participating in it? It's just grown with more and more projects and more and more users over the years, maybe it started off small with just over a hundred projects and now there's lots and lots of different projects, and each new one to me is like a whole new perspective on the topic on there, so it's just great to see what different people's opinions are, what they think what they would like to do with that topic, maybe it's something they're really interested or maybe it's something they'd like to explore a little later, so it's just great to see what they've made. Yeah and we actually have a forum for the curators, and we use that to help decide the next theme, and it's like a really fun experience being able to have to figure out a new theme that we haven't used before, you can imagine there's over a hundred themes that we've had in the past, because every month a new monthly activity for them, so it's really cool being able to be like okay here are some ideas, we have some drafted and then choose by voting or any other discussion topic in the forums, so it's really awesome too. It's so cool how simple the theme is, like this one's just symmetry, the only guideline is to just to make a project that involves that, but you see 100+ projects that are completely different, so unique, everyone's sharing and there are so many different takes on the same idea which is so cool. Yeah I see right there just simple dots in the tree, and then up there there's like cats and characters and things, so it's a whole range of different projects that Scratchers made. I was gonna say that reminds me of another great thing that comes with Scratch, which is the scene inside which you mentioned how to being able to see all the different style of code that people use, is just awesome, so there's multiple ways to get to the same end on Scratch, with different pieces of code, some use long bits of code, some use short bits of code, but both ways get you there, and it's super cool to see the way that people approach different problems that they wanna achieve, so I think that's the coolest part, being able to see the other people's work. And you've been showing some parts of the community on the website, what are some things that you're surprised that people don't know about the community, from your experience, especially with the years that you spent on the website? I guess it's surprising to a lot of people and to me, that we just all met through this conference, but there are a lot of Scratchers on the site that we become friends with, and that we've never met, we've never seen in person, but just through this love of coding and the love of this website and community, we have such a strong connection, it feels like a crazy strong bond with someone that we've never met, and it can be such a long journey together, I mean it feels like we've been friends forever, just the other day I think, maybe like a month ago, the friend that I was talking about, my first Scratch friend who I haven't talked to in quite a while, commented on my profile, hey, do you remember me, we met five years ago on this website, and I was like yeah I do remember you you were a huge part of me getting started on Scratch, and it's crazy because that happens all the time, and I know both of you have talked about similar experiences where there will be people that you know on the site for years, and you may not have met them, but it's just we are all so passionate about this, and this is such a great community for people who are passionate about it, that it just creates something that you wouldn't think is possible, and it's surprising that it's so strong. Yeah I'd say the same thing as you would, so I've had lots of people come back and come to my profile like hey, do you remember me, and I'm like of course I do, and we've been friends for quite a while, so it all starts always with a comment, or positive feedback on somebody's profile, and then it expands, like we are giving feedback back to theirs, and then it keeps going back and forth, it's like a chain and just watching each other grow further and further projects over the years, and then we've improved a lot over the years, it's amazing to see how much we can do with each other. And I know that it's super scary to release your kids onto a website where they can talk to whoever they want around the world, but I promise it's super safe, we have a great moderation team that is looking over all the comments, and making sure everything is secure, you don't have to worry about that, so I think that's the coolest part, how you really don't have to worry about people talking to anyone from across the world, the get exposed to all these different cultures and backgrounds that they never would have had the chance to before, so that's probably the best part in the community, being able to experience all these new people that you would never have met before Scratch. And something so cool about Scratch, I mean there are so many different projects you can make from games to animations, there are a lot of people who just use the Scratch editor to post, they draw different creative characters and they just post that and it's just a picture with maybe a description of the character, there's a million different creative things you can do no matter what your interests are, but one of my favorite things are multi animator projects, and it's crazy to see so many different Scratchers come together and work on one project, because a lot of them are music videos, they'll pick a song and a bunch of different Scratchers will choose a little part, like maybe a verse or maybe a chorus and animate in their style however they want, and then they just submit that, and then whoever is managing the project, will take all of that code, smash it together into one project, and then share it, so something like this, you see so many different animating cells, so many different Scratchers that worked on the project to create one final result, and it's just so cool that we can do that on Scratch, I think it's amazing. Shall we try this one, JT whispered to me he's like, "This one." I remember this one this is a good one. You wanna give an introduction or shall I just play it? I know it's a song, so basically most multi animator projects are based on a song, and it's all the different people coming together and I think if you scroll down to the credits you'll see the ads with each part, yeah there we go, so there's the different Scratchers that worked on each part of the project, so if you wanna just give a little brief. Okay do a brief play. (upbeat music) ♪ I can hold my breath ♪ ♪ I can bite my tongue ♪ ♪ I can stay away for days if that's what you want ♪ The bottom right corner showed that he person who worked on that part of the project. ♪ I can fake a smile ♪ ♪ I can forge a laugh ♪ ♪ I can dance and play the part if that's what you ask ♪ ♪ Give you all I am ♪ I hate to stop it, so enchanting. (audience applauds) So that's an example of something, and then another one I remember not too long ago we did this thing called I'd Like to Teach the World to Code, and a lot of people collaborated on art, and it was a parody of I'd Like to Teach the World to Sing, and we had a lot of Scratchers doing art and some of them sang the song, and it turned out really cool. Yeah it was really nice, I remember being part of the singing. mic was over there, I tried to be as far back as I could. It's one of the things I really love, also looking at in the community that Scratch members collaborate on projects together, MAPs are just one example, some of the different creative collaborations that have happened, there's collabs, that concept is the first time I ever heard of it, when they work in small or large teams to work on a single project, there's roleplaying games, are there some that I'm missing? There's many groups of people working together on something as you can imagine. And remixing. Yes. I love the remixed tree feature, you can click on it for that one. All the different branches of people. Yes 71 pages. Keep flipping. So I think basically what you guys are getting a feel for, how many different things you can do in the community, it's easy to just imagine Scratch as a programming language, because that's what it is at its core, but when you start branching off into different areas of the website, there is truly many more skills and experiences that you get for your students, so not only do they get the primary experience, they also get working together and problemsolving, and other things too, so it's not just a programming element that they get, as soon as they enter the community there are so many more valuable experiences that they can use. That's very true, I mean obviously you don't have to be a student to be a Scratcher, anyone can go on this website and either teach themselves how to code, just browse round projects, but one thing that I advocate for is just getting Scratch into more classrooms, because like you mentioned there are so many things that you can get from Scratch, and from programming in general, but this is such a great website, so many different features, one of my favorite things is, and we were talking about this with the assembly studio earlier, you can have one concept and there's a million different ways that someone can interpret it, a million different ideas for that one concept. So one thing that's really cool is if kids use Scratch to do presentations and projects, I meant we're all familiar with the classic PowerPoint or poster board, but after a while sitting through the same exact project, for a very long time in a classroom, it can get a little boring, but this is so engaging, because you can have the same topic that you're learning about in school, and kids can make a game about it, kids can make an animation about it, they can make slides on Scratch, and so I think that's just one way that Scratch can be used in the classroom, and there's so many other things that I think are great for students, teachers and then of course anyone who wants to use Scratch. I love how Scratch is just so interactive especially for the classroom, so it's not like she was staying with the boring PowerPoints, it's just like here is this, here's this, here's this. And then in Scratch you get 20 to 30 completely different perspectives, maybe one student makes the game, once students does a PowerPoint, but it's completely interactive with other students in the class, maybe it poses a question for other people in the room to answer, so it would probably be an amazing tool to add to everybody's classroom. Yeah there is actually a teacher here, I can't remember what her name was, but in a breakout session she was talking about how she posed her history teachers and her English teachers at school, and said hey if your students turned in their report as a Scratch project would you accept it? And they're like hm, and then they took a look at the website and what they could do and they were like, yeah I think I would, so that students could not only get her class grade, but also their class great using a Scratch project, so I think that was a really cool idea. Yeah back in eighth grade when I was in eighth grade, my history class, our teacher used to sometimes give us an assignment, where it's like make a creative thing about this topic, and then I had an account that I used for school projects, and I did it with Scratch, and then the teacher would always be like wow this is so cool, different from everybody else's piece of paper, this one is interactive, and the little dancing character or something, makes it even more engaging for people looking at it. Yeah speaking of the classroom I actually wanted to shift gears a little and talk about some of the things you've been up to till now, I know Bella you've been doing something with classrooms and clubs. I've been teaching Scratch for about four years now, currently I teach classes of fourth and fifth graders, I have also worked with seventh and eighth graders, there are some pictures from my classes, and it started with my brother's in that photo right there, yet so his fourthgrade teacher actually, just to preface real quick, when I was in middle school we had these banking days every week, so it was just an hour in the morning on Fridays when teachers would meet, so students didn't have to come in to 9 AM so they would get an hour to do whatever they want, and I would always go into my elementary school and do community service before heading over to school at nine, and my brother's fourthgrade teacher, she's absolutely amazing, she is so great about incorporating technology and art and just building an amazing classroom, so she offered to let me teach her class for an hour in the morning, teach her students how to code, and she used Scratch a lot in her classroom, just after I would code she would then use whatever lesson and say alright now go make a Scratch project about it, and the kids loved it, so that was my first experience teaching in seventh grade with her. And then from there I started creating my own classes over at my middle school, just after school classes, and it's been amazing seeing kids getting so excited about programming, just the afterschool classes were ones that they could sign up for, and you could see that I had such a huge turnout this year, because there are so many kids that are getting engaged with this website. So I have kind of a long story but I'll try to make it short with the time that we have, so back when I discovered Scratch in sixth grade, I was also getting interested in community service, my art teacher was teaching us how to crochet, and I wanted to do some crocheting for community service, so I started doing it for cancer patients, and then over the years I've been seeing these news stories and news articles about all the lack of technology, as I said I live in Richmond, Virginia in the inner city areas, so with combining those two passions, I ended up forming this community initiative that I call. Got Tech Richmond, and what we do is we donate and deliver all the needed technology equipment to underserved and underfunded schools in the Richmond, Virginia area, we were able to donate around $30$40,000 worth of technology so far, so it's been an amazing experience, and we also teach and learn to code classes at some of the schools, we have a picture of that in there. Jocelyn in action. So yes we use Scratch, and this was a school called Swansborough Elementary School, and the students were super into it, but I have a couple of specific stories with the students there, so there was these third graders, we were teaching them how to make dance projects, a little girl jumped up on her desk, started dancing with her character, and she was like, I did it, I did, it was so cute, and I was like yes this student is beginning to share a passion with computer science, exactly what I wanted to do, and then at the same time there was a fifth grade girl, I was just talking at the end, okay we're closing this, she ran up to me and just give me a hug from behind, and then a little boy right next to me just started going, "I love coding." And that same school started a weekly coding club, and they're still going with the coding club, and it's amazing what's happened with it. It's definitely exciting I'm sure we all feel this, that when we introduce or support other students there's that high that happens you see them have those aha moments, but I've never had a dancing on the table moment. You'll get there. It's something to aspire to. (audience laughs) (audience applauds) I'll hand over to you JT. So I'm a part of the Chem Club at my school, I know, Chem Club, not really computer science, but we do outreaches at our local elementary school, and they have a science club there, so I actually introduced Makey Makey to that, so I figured you can add a little science to that with the whole electricity and circuitry thing, so we just basically have the kids go around and just have some fun activities, like teaching them about conductivity and nonconductive objects, we had plastic and tinfoil, so which one would be conductive, and then at the end we had a a whole Dance Revolution game, and we put tinfoil on the floor, and then they could do Dance Revolution with the Scratch project which is really cool, and then we all joined hands, and we had the Scratch cat meow whenever our hands were joined, because the electricity would actually travel through the whole circle of us, and as soon as someone broke the link, then the circuit will break, and the Scratch cat would stop meowing, so it was supercool seeing them all being like, breaking hands and coming back and then it would never play because everyone was breaking hands, so basically that's 80 ways to incorporate Scratch and other things into different local elementary schools and other initiatives in your community. I'm curious, so we're about to open it for questions, so this is your chance to ask a Scratcher, I'm gonna have one more question and then I'll open it up, we're gonna throw this around and we'll see how it works. I stopped it don't worry. So I want to ask Bella, so when I started introducing many years ago, when I started introducing people to Scratch and coding, I was really excited about it, they're gonna love it because I love it, and sometimes I would have success and sometimes I would not have success, I definitely had a workshop where someone said I hate this, I was like I'm doing it all wrong. I'm curious have you run into challenges and what are those challenges look like, and what have been your strategies, what's one challenge that you've encountered? Yeah so for me I know that the way I do it, and it is similar to the way that I know Sarah and her session with Scratch for big kids they had a similar approach, and it was about find something on the website, and you definitely can, over 30 million projects I promise, that interests the students, so just have them be like what is your hobby, what do you love to do, sports, games, whatever, and then just search for it, you'll find a project with it, I know you will, and then just show them that project and they'll be much more perceptive to wanting to learning code when they see that they can actually do things that interest them, as opposed to a blank screen with the Scratch logo on it, which we all love I know, but sometimes it's a little daunting seeing just a blank plate and having to start from the beginning, at that age, and so when they actually see something that's finished, and they know what they can achieve and be capable of on the website, it's much more easy for them to jump in and get excited about it. Yeah and as JT might have been mentioning a little bit earlier, there's all different ways to code a project, there's not just one correct answer, you can get super creative with all your different ways of doing the projects, and so I always tell people that debugging takes a lot of practice, coding can also be like learning a language or an art, and learning a language and art takes a lot of practice before you start getting bigger and better until you grow, and eventually you'll be amazing, but you're not gonna be perfect right away, so you just have to keep trying. Yeah it's all about showing especially with younger kids, that coding there are so many different things that you can do with it that appeal to different interests, I know there's a lot of cool programs out there such as Girls Who Code who just encourage different people to try coding even if they don't think that they're gonna like it, I know that in my seventh and eighth grade class it was a class of all boys, but the most recent class that I have, I was so excited because it is I think more girls if not an equal amount, which is so big, because just getting girls into coding, because they might think it's a guy thing, even though it's not, so just being able to break that stereotype and show them, and they get so excited about it every time I show them a funny project, a funny animation or a cool game, we start out with really simple animations, that's always the first lesson, how do you put the blocks together, how do you make a dog chasing a cat on loop, stuff like that, but then when I show them different things that they can start building up to, they get so excited, like you don't just stop at, okay I'm in elementary school I started learning this and am gonna ditch Scratch and go to other stuff, there's actually a lot of people on the site who code for a living, professional programmers, who still use Scratch, and they make crazy games, I know there have been people that code Minecraft on Scratch, they make Minecraft for Scratch, just using their own methods to code it, so when kids, especially young kids that are so into gaming, and just different things, when they see what they can eventually learn how to do, they get so excited about it, so I think the biggest strategy would just be show them all the different projects, show them simple ones that will start by learning how to make, and show them more complex ones that might take a while but they're gonna be so excited to get there. Yeah teaching them how to make different projects from Scratch no pun intended. I know that we love to talk about wide walls, which is a great part of Scratch, but there is also a high ceiling that is often not talked about, because you're always gonna have that one kid who more excels, and you have to show him that there's so much that he can still do, there's never really a top layer, you're never gonna be done with Scratch, you can always keep going and creating and imagining and sharing. Exactly. As we are the Scratch community. Do you wanna do the thing? A group selfie? Yeah to we wanna take a group selfie? Okay alright. Oh we don't have a phone, so. (audience laughs) (audience applauds) I don't have long arms, so you're gonna have to do it. You all wanna try and squeeze in? That should do it. (audience applauds) Would someone like to ask a question? Okay I'm gonna throw it slowly and we'll just like. (mumbles) (laughs) Bottom one. (audience applauds) I wanted some tips, oh this actually is a microphone. (audience laughs) Yes it is. I wanted to make some tips on how to make these multianimator games, the process of doing this, how could you do it? So I think the way that most people do it is they find a song, or anything that really interests them, it's usually a song, and dividing the song into parts, you can do it by verses, in verses of two or three or however many, so I guess finding a lyric video or a lyric project, have people to be able to see the words in the song, and then having people to be able to come and pick parts, so I'd like to do these verses, I'd like to do these verses, and then first come first serve basis and then given a week or however long you want to let them make their animation, and then they'll share it, and then you just pull all their sprites and backdrops into the same project, so it's a little bit more work on the owners part. That's the part I'm confused about. How do you mash them all together? So you can use your backpack, it's like a feature on Scratch, if you wanna show it real quick. A little thing underneath. You have to sign in. You have to sign in to see it. There's like a little arrow on the bottom there. So basically the backpack is a way if you add another person's project you can take one of their sprites or backdrops and just open up the backpack down there, and then drag the sprite into your backpack, so now if you reopen up another project, and then go into your backpack, that sprite will be there. And all the coding. And all the code with it. I'll just put in some blocks here and try to get it for you. So now she goes to another project. I need to open a new one. And she can drag the code in and there's the box with it. So a lot of times people will share one initial project saying here's the idea, here's the concept, the song I wanna use, it doesn't have to be a song, you can also make a story in animation and have people do different parts of the plotline, just things like that, but they'll say, okay, here are the different parts, comment if you want one of them, and then I usually would make a studio and just have everyone post their parts in there, that way I can just easily go into all of them, again there's a really cool see inside button and all the projects that is super easy to find, but for this you just dragged sprites in the JT said, and then you have everything in your backpack to just drop into your final project that you're gonna share. And just troubleshooting real quick, I know I had this problem when I was using it, if you have two tabs open, and you drag something to the backpack On one tab, you have to refresh the other tab for it to show. Just a little troubleshooting. One thing I would add, is that one thing I also love about the community is that they create all kinds of tutorials about things, so is Scratchers have created a how to make a map tutorial, they can just google as well. Yeah I'm sure you'll find one. Take all the notes, so I see a hand up here, so shall we pass over in this direction? And while we're throwing that, I wanted to mention. (audience laughs) Back when I was a virtual camp counselor for some of these camps, I used to make tutorials for each stage of the way to show Scratchers of different things that they could do with each step, there was an art part, and I showed them how to do different types of art, there was an animation part so I showed them different types of animation, I liked getting feedback from the Scratchers on all different things that they've done with them. Yeah never hesitate to ask anyone, because everyone will be more than happy to explain to you, so if you just wanna leave a comment, how did you do this, everyone loves to talk about their work too. Hi, how would you change school in general given your experience, I mean in a general way, from the beginning, rethinking school given your experience? That's a really great question. That's a good question. So for me at least, I know for me creative learning is so much more powerful than conventional learning that we have in classrooms today, so notes on a PowerPoint are great, but getting a more creative aspect is so much more powerful and so much more meaningful to the student, so Scratch is a wonderful way to do that, if you wanna have them make a game about the subject that their learning, it's so much more memorable and easy to learn, way more than just taking notes, and it's much more easy to engage the students, that are less wanting to learn. Exactly handson learning is a lot of fun, and I always use this as an example, shout out to my English teacher Mr Crosby, I have a bunch of teachers that do things like this, which is just awesome, but rather than just standing up at the board and giving a lesson had having students take notes, he designs different projects and activities where we're giving, just touched my mic, we're giving ourselves the answer we're finding the information for ourselves, and then will have a classroom discussion, so things like that where the students are really discovering things and getting engaged, Scratch is a great tool for that, there are plenty of different activities that teachers can come up with, I think that's something that will get all students super interested in learning and just having fun with it. Yeah and I like the community and collaborative aspects of it being brought into classrooms, so this morning I saw a tweet from a teacher saying about different perspectives, like if you have a question you should share it with the world, share it with the rest of your class before asking, you can get all answers and perspectives out of it, and that applies to Scratch definitely, as we're talking about studios and Design Studios, just that one topic, there were so many expensive varieties of different projects you could make out of it. Thank you. I see, toss it on the other side, other side here. Back there. Back there yeah. (audience applauds) Hi thank you for sharing, what I wanna know is when is sharing too much, so you made a friend from way back when, but do you tell them more information about you, when do you start to make a nonanonymous community? So I would you say again, Scratch is super safe, there's no phone numbers there is no emails, you won't even be allowed to post it, they won't let me post anything, so I guess, I don't really know if there is a fine line, if you wanna share what you cooked that morning go ahead and share what you cooked that morning, whatever you wanna share. The sky is the limit. Yes I would say you don't have to worry about, I wouldn't share any personal information, but half the time you won't even be allowed to share it in the first place. Yeah it usually doesn't come up, we're all so excited to talk about programming different interests we have outside of that, it's never been an issue of safety or privacy, it's a very safe site for all. Anybody else have any questions? I have a quickie thank you, it was really great to see your first projects, I'm super curious hearing how your identities have developed, what are you working on right now? What am I working on right now? For me I'm trying to take the curriculum in the elementary schools like 3rd to 5th grade, and giving that unit a Scratch project they can present to their class, so basically incorporating creative learning into it, so I know for solids and liquids and gases I've created a little project that hasn't matured yet, but it's the different types of cells and liquids and gases, and then there is a game that goes along with it, and different ways to be creative, so that's what I'm doing. I'm not really working on any specific Scratch projects right now, but I'm still working to expand my learn to code classes to different elementary schools this year, with my final year in high school coming up, I'm gonna expand to more elementary schools in my area, show them the different aspects, I like to always end my learn to code classes with a community aspect, I tell the students go ahead and make a studio and leave a comment on each other's projects, and it's just great to see each other's reactions when they refresh the page, they're like, wow, I got a love, and this is really cool here's how you can improve, comment, and I'm gonna work to keep adding that to the classes more and more so it's not just projectbased, it's also peers and collaboration based. Yet I'm definitely gonna continue teaching Scratch, but I also wanna start doing more things, there are pictures from a Scratch Day that I did two years ago, it was a small thing in our computer lab that got kids interested in joining the class, but I wanna keep making it bigger, I think about doing something that my entire community can participate in, I also wanted to just try to get Scratch into more classrooms, when I was in eighth grade I presented to some of the teachers at my school and just talked about how important it is to get coding and those skills into classrooms and how they can use Scratch to do that, and since then I know the robotics program is now using Scratch at my elementary school they started using Scratch and more classrooms, but I want to continue pushing to get more people involved, and just show different people that didn't know Scratch existed, hey here's a cool program that you can create things on, so I just wanna reach out to more people, do some really cool projects coming up, yeah. Question. About five minutes anyway. There's a question over there. Okay let's see. So close. I'm just curious like you grew up with Scratch learning to code on Scratch, has anybody of you learnt any other programming language, and if so how has Scratch helped you with that getting started? Yes Scratch introduced me to my love of computer science, from Scratch I started working on Khan Academy, which is another great website for more line based programming, and there I started learning JavaScript, and also on the website Scratch is also open source, open source on GitHub, so you can go and help contribute their which is a great way to practice the skills that you've learned in a realworld setting, so I've been trying to help out around GitHub, and they use React JS and HTML and CSS and all that. Yes after I discovered Scratch I've tried some other languages, line based like he was saying, I've also done some game and animation coding, I've done some computer science summer camps over the years, some overnight, some local, all different kinds, and then eventually ended up going to a high school that has a specialty program known as the Center for information technology with computer sciencebased courses, like AP computer science and computer science principles, and programming courses and a web design course, from there I'm hoping to double major in computer science and digital media arts when I get to college. There are tons of different resources out there to learn new programming languages, I know I learned JavaScript on Khan Academy, just so many different ways that you can learn, and just starting on Scratch helps you to do that, because you just are able to learn so simply the different concepts, the way you have to think to be able to code, obviously it escalates from there, you can keep doing work on Scratch, but just being able to learn how coding works, what does a loop do, how do you put things in a forever block and why does that work, how does that work, especially with young kids, having them understand the concepts first, before moving onto anything else, they can easily learn any programming language they want, so quickly just by learning this first. And I know that we all agree on this, Scratch is a real language, it is a real programming language, don't think that it's a stepping stone onto bigger and better things, if anything I'd say it's probably more powerful than other programming languages, because you have a much easier element of sharing to the community and world around you, so don't get confused on that. So we have time for one very quick question, Sorry. Go for it. Good throw. There we go. So my question is sometimes students are reluctant to share and to get involved in the community, can you talk about some good steps to encourage them, or first steps to encourage them to start getting involved in the community so they can start getting that kind of feedback that got you going? Scratch Design Studio, for sure I would introduce them to the Scratch Design Studio, it's right on the homepage, it's a really amazing way to interact with other people, get a feel for joining the community and having conversations with another Scratcher, and having your project get exposure to, other people being able to see it and leave comments and loves and favorites, so that would be my suggestion, Scratch Design Studio. And also making their own studio, with their own interests, whether that's music or animals or something specific or something else really broad, they can just make a studio, and find kids in their class that agree with them and they can get in smaller groups and collaborate with them and that gets them started with the community part of people that share a passion with them. Exactly, looking at all of the different projects on Scratch, obviously having to do with their interests, and things that maybe they are interested in, and the just wanna see what other people are making, and then looking through the comments, 'cause I know so many projects have thousands of comments with positive feedback with critiques and just stuff like that, so being able to see other people are sharing their projects, whether there's simple or complex, and people are having such positive reactions, yet just seeing that I think will really encourage them and get them excited to experience it for themselves. Yes sometimes the easiest way to have a conversation is to start a conversation, just have them leave a comment, leave a love, and it will flourish from there. It's a really nice sentiment to end on, unfortunately we're out of time, but they've offered to stay here for a little bit if you wanna ask more questions. Right here on the stage. Right here on the stage, and throughout the rest of the day, you can also find them on Scratch, and thank you all for your questions, and let's thank the three of them for joining us.