Hey, everyone. My name is Eric, and I want to wish you a Happy Scratch Month! (crowd cheers) Yes, so we are officially one week into our first ever Scratch Month. And for those aren't familiar with Scratch Month, it's a global event where people all around the world are invited to come onto the Scratch on the community and to imagine, to create and share together. And every week, we're going to be launching some new activities. So a lot has already happened. We're only one week in and I want to give a quick recap of what we've been seeing folks do. So first, we saw over three thousand five hundred people dance their way into Scratch Month. So yes, Scratch Cat put out a Remixful project that invited people to dance with them. And you all answered the call in like the coolest way possible so that was a super amazing way to start the month. And we also launched a few activities this past Monday. So the first was Scratch Avatar Creators so this is kind of like Icon Maker projects And we saw some amazing ones. So there was everything from, I think, a duck icon creator to making your own pineapple icon, ice cream, and yes (chuckles), even a human avatar creator. But that's not all. We also launched the DIY Crafts Studio, so these are things so it's like dig into your recycle bin and pull out some materials, and make something pretty cool. I was really lovin' the DIY Ring Toss game. So just grabbin' some old paper plates, cutting out the middle, and then making them into a super super fun game. But wait, there's even more. So we launched a third activity called Share the Love, which is, as the name says, just sharing the love with Scratch. So we saw beautiful expressions of love, like this simple reminder that you are important. We saw a shoutout to the folks helping us keep us healthy and safe. We saw an animation where someone literally was covered with love. But don't worry, it looks like they are okay. We saw a beautiful Mother's Day card. Even this really special greeting from a group of coders in Iraq. So as you can see, it's been an awesome and busy Scratch Month, and I want to remind you, you are all invited to participate. And so if you want to participate, just head over to the Scratch website, www.scratch.mit.edu. And on the homepage, you will see a Featured Studio row, and in that row, you'll see the Scratch Month activities. And of course, we also have a fancy Scratch Month website that you can go to for even more details. So hope to see you online. Happy Scratch Month.