Hey, everyone. My name is Eric and I hope you're having a great Scratch Month. (giggles) (cheers) We are officially two weeks into this global celebration, where people are coming on to the Scratch community to imagine, create and share together. And I wanna give you a quick recap of what we've seen. So, on Monday we launched three new activities, one of them was Interview Anything. So, were used to interviewing people, but what if you could literally interview anything? I love this one where it's reported Berry interviewing Mr. Milk. [Reporter Berry] Hello Mr. Milk, today we will ask you what everyone wants to know. Do you get cold in here? That's really interesting. And we also saw this hard hitting interview, where a chipmunk was interviewing a chair. ♪ BabadooBadaBapbapbadoo the nut show ♪ Now, tell me what's it like being a chair? Fascinating. We also launched the activity Sprite Art, which encouraged people to make art out of, well, anything as well. I was super mesmerized by the number of spiraling food projects that we saw. I was also really digging this Sprite paint tool, that even included a rainbow mode. (light classical music) And, finally, we launched our How Do You Peace out activity, which is all about creating relaxing and soothing Scratch projects. I really loved this project where a puffer fish was leading you through a breathing exercise. So, every time the puffer fish would go up you'd breathe in, and when it went down you'd breathe out. We were also taken onto this awesome journey into our own imagination. [Girl] Think that you're in a forest and you come across a beautiful lake and you close your eyes and you think you've had the most beautiful day. And I especially loved this project with a view out a window that reminds us, while we're apart we're all together in this. And I've especially been feeling that togetherness seeing all the awesome collaboration that's been happening at Scratch online community during Scratch Month. So, there you have it, there's just a little sneak peak into what's been happening during Scratch Month. And, as a reminder, we would love for you to join. So just hop on over to the Scratch website, scratch.mit.edu, and on the home page you'll see a featured studio row. That's gonna have all the Scratch month activities. And, of course, we also have the Scratch Month website that has all the details as well. So, hope to see you online and happy Scratch Month.