Hey, everyone! My name is Eric. Also known as speakvisually on Scratch. Hi, everyone! I'm Tina. Also know as quacht on Scratch. And welcome to the Scratch Video Update! Hey, everyone. Welcome to the Scratch Video Update. Episode #26. I'm joined by Tina! Hi! I'm a member of the Scratch Team, and also a graduate student from Lifelong Kindergarten where Scratch was made. We're loving the weather outside, so we figured we walked outside the MIT campus for this episode. We're also loving a bunch of projects! Oh, that segue to the "Love It" section! I love it! These are projects we're loving in the community, though we love them all. I'll start. There's this really cute project called "Steppin On The Beach" and the author of this project invited people to add themselves dancing on the beach. It's been remixed hundreds of times. Actually, the project was created in 2011. I invite everyone to add yourself stepping on the beach. How about you, what are you loving? One project I'm really loving is one that helps you bring nature to your projects. It is a forest generator project. By switching costumes and growing sizes, you can get a full forest. And I think it's like every time you've run the project it's a different forest. It's cool you should totally try that out! Speaking of things to try, we have our "Things to Try" section! Triple T "Tina Tina, Tina" This section we want to talk about cool things happen in the community or just things happen with Scratch. I have one I want to start with I really like this idea of like bringing Scratch outside and so what I've been doing is using video sensing to code live backdrops. Cool! Here's an example of one I went outside of the MIT Media Lab where we work. I had the webcam facing outward and I just started like playing with things I sort of in that environment I added a rocket ship added some new buildings. It's just like my first attempt at it but I think people should try it. What about you? One thing that I think people should try is checking out the photography studio where people are going outside taking pictures of landscapes animals of just things in their daily life and their surroundings and bringing them to share with the community. Super cool. I have one more studio that I want to share. It's the news it's the Scratch Design Studio and it's called "Growing" and the theme is things that grow, so plants, trees, people, piles of homework. It's actually pretty popular already there's a couple thousand projects in there but totally check it out totally again fits in with our theme of being outside in nature. We're so lucky Tina to have you here on the Scratch Video Updates, so we thought the message from the Scratch Team would be learning a bit more about how it is you've been sort of contributing to Scratch over the years. Something I've been interested in and what brought me to the Scratch Team. is the idea of accessibility, which it means that anyone no matter what their abilities are can still engage with and interact with that thing the is accessible I wanted to explore how Scratch could be made accessible to people who can't see and in exploring that I also thought about how Scratch projects could be made more accessible through their design. Have you considered how your projects could be made accessible to people with different abilities? I haven't until you mentioned it so I'm glad you're mentioning this. All right, cool. So there's a bunch of things you could do to make your projects more accessible. For someone who can't see, adding in text to speech blocks to voice what is being said and shown in little speech bubbles. You could also add keyboard controls instead of relying on mouse for people who don't have fine motor skills. You could also, if you're using sound effects on music maybe add in additional ways to convey the same emotions or the same cues visually. It could help for people who are deaf. Three very nice tips! Thank you so much for sharing! And so I think we're at the end of the episode and it's actually kind of fitting I want to turn around here so Tina graduated not more than a week ago Tina where are you? Tina was in right in front of the dome here at MIT graduating so congratulations that make you so much video update! so we'll see everyone in about a month for another video update. Scratch on!