Today I want to share with you how I learned how to design user interfaces in Figma at blazing fast speeds using styles and components. Hey, everyone, it's JC here designer at quote with Chris. So I was a copywriter by profession, but I also always had a passion for design in general. And later on develop a strong interest in UI and UX design. Now I'm becoming a better designer every day through practice and study. And this series is about the journey. If you have an interest in design, I hope I can inspire you to pursue it without further Ado. Let's start learning design. So episode one is going to be all about how I learned how to design fast using styles and components and Figma. But before we dive into that, I first want to introduce you to the principle or the framework behind all this, which is the atomic design framework. Buzzword I know, but give me a minute here it'll be quick. So the ADF is a framework that was authored by Brad Frost, who also happens to be a designer speaker consultant. And he came up with this framework to help anyone understand the process of effectively building a digital product like a website or an app. So the ADF goes like this. So we have the atoms, the molecules, the organisms, templates and pages first are the atoms. So if you remember your science class, atoms are the most basic element of matter in the same way that it is the most basic element in the UI. So in a UI, these are usually the colors, the typography, pictures or illustrations and eye concepts that you'll use in your UI. Basically, these are the most bare minimum elements that are needed in your interface. So if you are going to follow this framework, you need to work on your atoms first before you start moving on to your organisms, molecules and so on. And once you've identified those, you move on to the molecules. The molecules are like elements like buttons, input fields, search fields, and so on. And then after that you combine these molecules and then you form an organism or organisms. So organisms are basically combined molecules, as you can see here. So these are buttons and three buttons, individual buttons that were combined and they form a tab bar. So as you can see, some examples of organisms are sidebars tab bars, headers and so on. So from there put all your organisms together and you'll have a template like what you can see right here. So in this template we have the header and the tab bar. And we're referring to Chris as a template because we can always drag and drop these templates or copy and paste these templates into whichever page that we like or whichever page that it is suitable. As an example, just copy and paste this one. Copy and paste this one as well. And from here we'll just change the indicator to contacts, drag it to the contacts and change this contacts. And that's a template. So we can always change the details like the page title and all other content accordingly, depending on what we want, because essentially it is a template and it functions as any other template that you know. So finally, after you have a template, you can now combine these together and have a page like a home page product page setting page, which are now elements on the final stage of your UI design process. So here, for example, what I'm going to show you is just create the body of this chat list page or the homepage of the chat app. And here's an example of an organism. So this contains the atoms such as our type or typography, and a picture that we showed you a while ago. So from here, I'll just duplicate this command D and let it fill the screen just like that. So here we now have a full fledged homepage of the chat. And basically that's all you need to know about the ADF or the atomic design framework. So the reason I wanted to share this with you first is because this is the same framework that I also follow here at Kolisus Chris when designing apps, and as a result of that, I am able to create a full fledged UI within a day or two. Well, of course, provided that the requirements and wireframes have already been approved. So yeah, the main reason why you want to follow this framework, too, by designing your own UI is because it's efficient. It's as simple as that. When you work and finalize elements starting from the smallest one, you lessen the time that you'll have to spend tweaking or finding the colors or fonts. For example. Also, if you're also coding your own UI, then this is also another reason why you should go down this route, because this way you're already able to organize the assets that you'll need later on in the project. So how do we materialize this framework in Figma? Well, we can do that with style guides and components. And for this video, we'll use the home page and chat page of our newly released chat app as reference. Make sure to check out Colutris dot com to know more about that minicours. All right. So for atoms, we'll basically choose a few colors and fun styles and icons that we'll use for these pages only the home page and the chat page, as I mentioned. And basically for our style guide. Since we're only using two pages as an example, we'll just keep it as simple as we can. But of course, if you're going to create a style guide for an actual project or an actual app with more than 30 or 50 pages, then it makes more sense to have a comprehensive style guide. But I hope this will give you an idea on how to get started from here. Let's just say that these are the colors that I want to use for the UI of the chat app. So let's just say that we already skip that part. So you can always choose whichever color palette that you want for your app. In my case, these were the colors that I wanted to use. So from here, let's just create the styles. So create style by clicking on color, press on the right panel, click on style and click on the plus icon to create style. So here let's just say this is the blue, and that basically converts it into a blue category or blue group. And this is the sub category, which is the primary. So here's another example. So click on the plus icon again, blue secondary. And when you click on the icon, you see that this is the blue. The subclasses are primary and secondary. So that's basically how styles work and Figma. So let's just fast forward this. But I hope that gives you an idea already. All right. So we're done with creating styles for our colors. So if you click on the empty space right here, you'll see all the color styles listed on this right panel. So you have the blue primary, secondary background, primary, secondary text, primary, secondary and tertiary. So basically these are all the colors that I want to use later on in this project or in this video. But yeah, also, don't worry if you're going to have some changes here later on. If you feel like the colors don't fit your taste, if you want to change them, you can always do that. But basically, I hope this gives you an idea on how to create styles and how to apply them efficiently as you move towards your project. So let's move on to our fun styles. So this one is heading one subheading paragraph, paragraph, semi bold caption. So here let's just say that this is already the font properties that I want to use for my heading. So what I'm just going to do is create a style textile and make sure this is named as Heading One or H one. There you go. And this one is great style subheaded. So let's just fast forward this again. Alright. So we're done creating the fun styles or textiles for our demo project. So click on the empty space right here again. So as you can see, we now have a list of our textiles, our subheading, our heading one, our paragraph styles. And I think we can do this right. P one regular, semi bold and caption. And yeah, that's our style guide, and it's as simple as that. So next we move on to our component. So from here on out from the molecules to pages, we'll be using components as often as we could. And in a few minutes, you'll know why I think that Chris is more efficient. All right. So once we're done with our atoms, let's create our molecules so our molecules. Let's just use this two as a reference. So our molecules include the buttons, and I think that's it molecules such as the buttons and this chat bubble. I think these are molecules. All right. So with our icons, by the way, these are also part of our atoms, and we don't need to create a style guide for this because we just downloaded this from the Internet, but open source icons back, so we can just copy and paste Chris to your Figma workspace, and you don't need to do anything apart from modify them according to your UI. But when it comes to styles, there's no need to style them like what we did a while ago. All right, so here, let's just create the chats button. So here, let's pull up this icon. Type in chat, and as you can see, let's remove this style and make sure pull up our caption regular style and drag it here. Select them both. Press Swift A, convert them to auto layout, and then make sure that this is four and the alignment is in the center and change the color to make sure to go to selection. Change the color to maybe text secondary from there. Pull up this new chat icon. Just select this chat. You can just duplicate this new chat, and maybe this one can be paragraph one or something like that. Or you can stick with caption, keep it consistent and select them both. Shift a same goes for contacts. Let's drag it here. Changes the contacts, change the color the secondary text. Select both Swift A and press four. Make sure it's vertically aligned, horizontally centered. Let's remove the shadow here. There you go. These are our molecules, but we can modify them just a bit more so we can change this to blue, change the selection colors to blue instead, this one will be blue, and that's a lot better. So since this is a chat app, we want to emphasize the new chat button because that's the main action that we want them to do. So once we're done here, we now have a set of molecules. So each of them are molecules. So we're not grouping them just yet because we'll do that later on. But yeah, having them individually as buttons are considered as molecules. So next up is let's put this outside. Next up is the chat bubble. So let's just copy paste or maybe let's just pull up our Lord Epsom plugin so you can download this on the Figma community. Lorim Epsom, the name of the plugin. So let's just type in. Create a text layer. Pull up the Lorem FM again. Make sure that maybe two sentences is good. Paragraph one, P one regular. Change this to caption, change the color to text tertiary and make sure that this is wrapped properly. Let's just delete. Let's just do this later on. But yeah, after this press shift a, select the text. Press shift a and then since Chris is a chat bubble, we want to make sure this is maybe 30 or 32 and then add the background fill to blue and one change Chris to P one, change the color to background, and then change the padding, maybe 1616 and maybe just keep it 16 all throughout. All right, that's good. And then next thing I want to do to keep this lower right corner zero, and that maintains it as a more realistic chat bubble. So chat bubble so you as a sender will have this blue chat bubble. I think that's good. We can always modify the size of this later on, but basically, that's how it should work for container. All right, so now we have organisms. This is our next organism that we need to rather this is our next molecule that we need to do. So we have our input fields right here. So that's great. The input field type in two A's. Let's Zoom in, type in the two as press shift eight. Make sure that the corner edges is around 50 maybe. And then make sure Apple a fill to that background layer is secondary and just stretch this as far as you can or as far as you want and then change the text color to tertiary or maybe secondary, because this is just like a placeholder. Then after that, we now have an input field. So let's just double check on the rise of this. So this is 285. So you can always change this. I just wanted this to be the same as my original design, so you can always change this later on. All right. So once we're done next is create our organisms or wait before we do that, we also need to create Chris's picture. So we don't have Chris's picture here. So what I want to do is to just copy and paste this picture. What happened? Just detach this, press this picture and copy and paste this here. So let's just say that I imported this from my desktop. Doesn't really matter as long as you have a picture we can use as an avatar. And from here, select your picture frame selection. Right click on frame selection. Let's rename this to avatar. Next, change this to 100. Make sure and make sure that it will be circle. The square will be converted to a circle just like that. As you can see right here, Cress's face is going beyond the boundaries of the frame or the CircleCI. So what you want to do is to clip the content just like that. Let's change the fill to maybe blue. Just that good to go. Let's just change the I think that's okay. All right. So let's just change the stroke, apply some stroke here outside two. Who's good and Resize this to maybe 24. Sorry. Make sure to Select Chris portrait here or the picture that you're using and select scale. Make sure to select scale before you Resize so that the picture itself inside the frame will be able to scale as well. So change this to 24. Select the frame 24. There you go. Or maybe there's too small. Then use 32, maybe 44. All right, good to go outside. One, two. Finally, we now have our set of molecules. So from here we can create organisms. But before we do that, I just want to create the frame finally, so that we can have a better scale. So open up the frame tool. Select any preset that you want. Here. I want to use the iphone Eleven Pro preset or the iphone ten preset. And I'm going to rename this as chat homepage,right? Just like that here, using our atoms, using our set of style guides, we'll just change the background cocoa primary, and then finally, we can create the organisms of the tab bar. So let's do that and press auto layout and add a background color just like that. And let's put it right here. Change the adding to 30, 216, 20 and 20. Good to go. Make sure it snaps there you have it. Make sure they are all aligned in the middle. And from here, just make sure that it is vertically packed. So here I just want to make this something like so the reason that they have different padding is because a while ago, as you can see, the new chat button was slightly off center, so it was a bit to the left. So I just modified the padding just a little bit so that it won't affect usability. Anyway, they are just two pixels so that the new chat button will stay in the middle, just like that. All right. So from there next, we now have a tab bar. What I want to do next is to create the list organism. The list grow. So here, let's just type in Chris Ching. Duplicate that plug in placeholder. Lorimp some generate text. So change this textile to ibaction. I'm going to change the color to text. Tertiary and P one. Change the textile to semi boat, something like that, or maybe regular is okay. Maybe somebody is okay. Select them both. Make sure to press shift a again auto layout. There you have it. Let's rename this to main text. Page the spacing to four, maybe zero, just four to get clean. And then from here, let's just Resize this a bit. Select this text layer the Laura Mapson placeholder, make sure it's filled container. And then you can just Resize this accordingly. So let's delete this. Just crop that text from here. You have two frames. As you can see, there's the auto layout frame. There's a normal avatar frame. Next, select them both and then press shift a and that will convert them into an auto layout. From here, change the spacing to 16. This is the lowest list item. From here. Change the pattern 2016 or maybe twelve and twelve. Change the background color to background color from there. Now have a list item. But as you can see, it's going beyond the boundaries of the frame. The quick fix to this is to just Resize the text, make sure that it's filled container just like that and just remove this excess text. Put a three dots there. There you have it. Also, we forgot to put some time here. So caption good text tertiary. Make sure that the text color is in tertiary and just add this just like that. So that's the beauty of auto layout. You can just drag and drop things and it will automatically snap to your frame. Okay, so let's Resize this again. This was the original state. Let's Resize that. And as you can see, Resize that. And I think we still have access to here. So let's just do this again or maybe something like that. There you have it. So now you have a list row. It goes from edge to edge. So this is basically our organism. We now have a list item. All right. So I hope you now have an idea of what atoms, molecules, and organisms are. I hope my demonstration worked or helped your understanding. So what's left for me is to create a heading here that says Chats and homepage or something like that. So using our existing atoms or I think I could consider them as molecules because these icons themselves are standalone secondary buttons. I treat them as secondary buttons because they are located here in my wife and the original wife that I did. We have the text here. And these two buttons here can be found in this section right here. So we'll just recreate that from scratch. So type in chats, change this to H one. Then let's just select them both and just like that. So from here, what I'm going to do is to select them both again. Press shift eight, converge them to auto layout, change the spacing, maybe eight or twelve, maybe 16. That's good. Change their color to text secondary and change this color to text primary. All right. From there, what I'm going to do is to set all of them both of them this frame and this chat and press shifter again. And there you go. Now we have the heading, organism or header. Rather, header is much more appropriate header. Let's just snap this to the top and change the padding to 64 and 32 and 20 changes. And of course, you want to make sure that they are spaced between just like that and make sure that they are vertically aligned or horizontally aligned. I'm really not sure which one is which. And there you have it. You now have the header. So now we have a template. We now have a set of organisms right here. We have the header just to recap. We have the header, the list item and the tab bar. These are a collection of organisms. These are a collection of atoms. These are a collection of atoms. And these combined, they form a molecule and combined, they form an organism right here. So this is one organism, second organism, third organism. So combine them together. And now we have a template just like that. So why template? Because I can just simply duplicate this. And now we have a chat homepage, and it's as simple as that. Right. So yeah, if you want to have a better understanding of this, we can always copy. Paste this system and Gesture or Home button. Let's just copy and paste this here. And we'll have a better scale of the App UI home indicator. Copy and paste this here. Now we have a chat homepage. We just redid the chat list from scratch, and I think it's pretty much identical to what I initially or what I originally designed. So next up is the actual chat view using this bubble in portfolio, all the remaining components right here. So let's just duplicate this again and remove this. Change this to subheadingtype in. Chris Chris, because there's the actual chat. And let's just find a back button. So like I said a while ago, you don't need to worry if you don't have anything laid out right from the beginning, as long as you have most of them at your disposal. So here, as you can see, I'm looking for the back button. I think this works. All right. So what I'm going to do is just drag it here, select them both and make sure that they are an algorithm and change the direction to vertical. Just like that. Change the spacing to zero. And just like that, I want to change this to 24. There you have it. Maybe change this to six or eight, and it's much more suitable. So from here, what I want to do is to add an avatar right here. So what I'm going to do is just click on this avatar frame and drag it right here. And there you go. You now have a header or our chat view or chat view or chat page rather. And next thing you want to do is just delete this because it's essentially a new page. So we can always change the background color of this if you want to add a little bit of dimension. So maybe pure white. If it's not there, you can always choose pure white, just like that. Just like that. So our header in pure white. And I think it's much better because it adds a little bit of dimension. So it's not super uniform from top to bottom. All right. There you have it. And then from there, we just need to drop this. So from here, we'll create another organism. So we already have our molecules right here the chat bubble. So what's left is to add the time which it was sent. For example, so just click here and drag and drop copy and paste it just beside this chat bubble or anywhere. Then press them both so I can both press shift a make sure that they are spaced between and that they are in the center. So from here, let's just drag it here, snap them to their edges and make sure that the padding is 2020. Next is to you can always duplicate this. Create another molecule receiver. So this one let's just change the let's just change the corner on which we have a zero value. So here we have the lower left. Change it to zero. Change this back to Rebirth Chris to 32 and change the color to blue. Secondary. Change the color to text color through text primary and just duplicate it. Drag and drop. Select auto layout center space between 20. Click there and there you have it. So depending on your preference, you can always set the uniform padding like here. So we have 20 all throughout. You can set 1616, save some space, or you can even set twelve. Save some space. And what's next is to create a component. So from here, I want to create a component because this is basically close to final. Create a component. Create a component. Rename this to chat bubble receiver. And what I want to do is to combine them as a variance. So select them both. Combine them as a variance. So from here, just drag it somewhere away from this chat page. So I can always just from here I can just select this hold option and drag it here. So what this essentially does is now that I have a component that I can change the property for when I would design later on. So all I needed to do was to create two sets of properties for this chat page or chat bubble. And from here, I can just duplicate them. So command D, I pressed command B, I just kept on duplicating them. And from here, I can just change the property of this two receiver just like that. So now we have a chat page that was just designed in around five minutes. I guess. So let's just say, for example, in a specific scenario, this chat bubble had very small text within it, so we can always just delete one, and the chat bubble will automatically wrap around that text. So that's the beauty of auto layout. You don't have to worry about stuff not being able to wrap around properly. So a while ago, as you can see, I deleted them. But this item here did not follow the boundaries of this, so they still have that space between them. So to solve that, what I want to do is to create them all basically, and press shift a convert this all the way out and rename this to body. So this is basically the body Chris, the header and we have an input field later on, we'll design it here. So from here, since there's another layout, let's say, for example, you replied four or five words, delete this, and now that automatically wraps around that body text. So yeah, that's basically how I designed this chat app 36 screens in one day, and we just need to finalize our input field. So put the send and camera icon here. Change this to blue and change this to maybe something like that. Yeah, that works. All right. So next we have them all aligned. Don't worry. If they're not aligned, you can always just modify them later on. So from here, select them all, press all the layout and select them. Make sure that they're aligned at 16, 2014 or 16. It's okay. Always change them. Input section. All right. From there, we now have our input section, our input field. Just file some changes, changes to 20, changes to 20 as well. And change this. Change the width of this to a bit smaller just so that we'll be able to snap this on the SDKs. Now you have one. Change this to 32. Change this to 24, since Chris is just a secondary action. So now you have the input field and just always put the tab bar back at the input field. Let's adjust this to the input field. Let's just adjust this to the side. But before we do that, as you can see, when you drag something inside this body frame, it will automatically go inside this frame. And we don't want that to happen. So to prevent that, you just need to click on the body and lock it. You just lock so that whatever happens, it won't snap inside that frame. So going back, just change this right here. Modify it just like that and change the background color by the way, to something like this. There you have it. Change the heading to 16. There you have it. We now have the chat page. So I shared with you how great components of this so you can use them. You can also Apple them on the list item if you want to create a different screen that shows unread messages. So from here, let's just create component. And here let's just modify this text will be primary as well. So these are basically this is basically a text that hasn't been read yet. Just like that. So create components as well. So rename this to Chris item and Conrad like this one, this item red, as you probably already know, select them both. Combine as a variance and put them away. And from here, what I want to do is just drag it here and delete all of them because we now have a component. We don't have to worry about them and duplicate them and keep on duplicating them as they reach the bottom of the tab bar or as to reach Tabar section. All right. So now let's see our components in action. So this is red. Let's say if it's on red, just like that. And that's how I designed these things very fast in Figma. So I know that this video, the length of this video may say otherwise that this is not as fast as you thought would, but once you master components, it will allow you to design things very fast and stigma because you don't have to recreate them from scratch. You can just rely on your components and let them do the work. Here's one final example. Let's say I want to put an indicator here on the tab bar. Let's create a rectangle and change the height to maybe ten to maybe ten. And the wind is maybe 48. Something like that. Maybe change the to eight. Change the Conrad is to maybe 1616 and 16. As you can see, we have this sort of like Blade esque of an illustration. And let's lock this tab bar. Select this tab bar, unlock it and make sure frame selection so that this rectangle will go inside this frame, but not inside this tab bar. Auto layout frame. So let's just put it down a bit. Put it in front. Your tab bars should be in front so that it will naturally cover this body items. So tab bars and heading items should be in front and the body will be underneath those. So let's just put it back. Let's snap it just like that. Change the height to maybe six or four. Yeah. Or is the sweet spot for me. Change the width to 48 just like that and change the color to primary blue. Now we have an indicator that indicates that we are in the Chat page chat home page. Lock it. All right. From here. Let's just duplicate this old option. Then create another one. Drag it to the Contacts page contacts button rather. And name this as contacts. Duplicate this. This will be tabbarchat. Let's add space here right from here. Just create component command option K command option K. Then from here, select them both. Combine as variants. Now you have collection or component parent component of tab bar that you can use for chats and contacts pages. All right. So here's an example. There's the chat page. I can just drag it here. List in front, but not super in front. The home indicator still be in front. There you go. So let's say, for example, this St contact page. What I'm going to do is just simply select the property. Select this, select the property, search the contacts and that's it. We now have a tab bar for the contacts page. All right. Atoms check molecules, check organisms, check templates check. And now we just designed two pages using those things that we just mentioned. So I apologize if this video wasn't as short as you thought it would. So it's ironic that we're talking about designing fast and efficient. And this video goes on for, like, 20 or 30 minutes, but you can't rush learning. So I hope this video gave you an idea on how you can design very fast. And Sigma still using styles and components, even if it took quite some time now, this is just the tip of the iceberg because there are so many things that you can do with components, like creating a design system for your app or company brand, something like that. But since we are all beginners here, including me, yes, I consider myself a beginner because I still have a lot to learn. I wanted to share what I learned so that you'll be interested in exploring the vast potential of 1000 components in Figma or even Figma as a whole. With that said, thank you for learning design with me and I'll you in the next video.