Alright, so I've got the previous project that we started with in the last episode open right now and if you don't know how we got here please check out the first episode where we created this project. In this video, i'm going to go over the XCode interface with you guys and to be honest, i don't even know everything about xcode but i'm going go through some of the common features that I use most daytoday in my programming. So at a glance, this is your code editor window, right here in the middle. This on the left hand side is your file tree so you can see all the files with your project and if you ever need to add files to your project, you can just right click in the folder and you can either add existing files or you can choose a new code file that you want that add. If you want to create new folders which is really handy to organize your project, you can do something like this where you choose "New Group" and then you can type something like "view controllers" or whatever you want to do to organize your project. We'll go over that as well what are some best practices in terms for ordering your files so it's not a mess for the person who is also working with you on this project. You've got some little tabs up here on the left hand window. This one i use a lot. This one is just searching for anything. Oftentimes you'll want to look for some sort of keyword or some snippet, so you can type in something like, for example, "app delegate" there and its going to tell you all the files in your project which contain your search keyword right there and tapping that will just open that file. Now if you guys, any guys coming from Visual Studio and the Microsoft side, you're going to be used to double clicking to open a file. I struggled that at first but if you do that here, you'll actually open it in a brand new window which in most cases, you're not intending to do. This is useful if you want to put this on an external monitor and have two code windows open but for the most part clicking it once will bring you to the file. In this pane right here, you can see all the warnings and the errors when you build your project and this is all your breakpoints here. So just quickly, to set breakpoints in your project, you would just click on the side there. And for those of you who are just starting out programming, essentially what breakpoints are, is that it's going to stop execution of code at that point and that will allow you to check things like variables and it also allows you to step through your code, stepbystep, so that you can make sure that it's doing what you're expecting it to do. And up here, in the upper left hand corner this button that we clicked last time to run our project and its basically going to launch the simulator, you see that little arrow there. If you hold it, you can actually do several different things here. We can get into those options in the future but for now lets move on. The stop button here will stop the execution of your app and bring you back into XCode. If you've got different simulators you can actually choose them here so for example i can choose to run this as an iPad app and can see what that would look like or an iPhone and if you have different SDKs installed, for example, iOS 5 or 4.3 you'd be able to choose it and test it on those OSes here. This is a big general toggle for all of your breakpoints in your project. One thing we didn't go through is actually if you set a breakpoint, like so. You see that blue arrow there? If you want to disable a single breakpoint you can tap it, you can see that it gets dimmed out. Or you can actually just pull it off and it will blow up in a puff of smoke. Okay so these two arrows, these things are useful. So it basically acts like a back button like you would expect in your browser allows you to go backwards through the files that you've been visiting and forwards. This thing, right here, is almost like a breadcrumb of the files you're looking at so essentially, you could very quickly jumped to different files like this. And up here in the upper righthand corner, you see this little tuxedo icon? What that will actually do is open up an assistant editor. And it basically opens up the corresponding file that's related to the file you're looking at. So for example, if i'm looking at the Viewcontroller.m, it's gonna open up Viewcontroller.h. And that's very helpful because sometimes you want to reference what sort of properties and variables and method signatures you've declared in your header file, while you're working in your implementation file. This just helps you you know, if i were in my single view, this helps you not have to switch between them like so. These ones right here will just slide in these panels as you see fit. This right hand side here basically gives you more information about the file you're looking at. For the most part if you're working in code, this is not so useful but when you're working with storyboards and XIBs and stuff, this panel will be more useful because you can you can drag elements onto the screen from here and do that kind of stuff. So I'm going to hide that for now. This button here, "Organizer", is going to be stuff like provisioning profiles which we'll get into it in the future. That opened in another window. There's some stuff in my organizer that i can't show you. Some sort of information from work. So i'm going to close that. I'll show you guys in the future video but basically what you want to use organizer for is either for source repositories if you're going to check in your code somewhere, managing provisioning profiles, which are important if you're going to be deploying your app onto devices for testing and eventually into app store, for documentation purposes, stuff like that. Down here, you're going be using this a lot, this little tray down here, which you can pop up and pop down. This is your debug window or console window. So you're going to be able to basically, if you set a breakpoint and you halt execution, you're going to be able to check on the different variables and basically debug, help debug your app, and we'll see how that works in the future. So that was your basic introduction to the XCode interface. For those of you guys who have a programming background, this probably makes sense to you. Just the environment maybe a little unfamiliar. But for those of you guys who don't have any development background or programming experience, the terminology that i've used might go over your head. Stuff like breakpoints and header and implementation files and stuff like that but don't worry and stick with it. The more you code, the more you watch It's all going to make sense and it's going to come together for you guys. And you're going to be building really cool apps soon. You know i've seen a lot of YouTube videos out there teaching you how to build your first application and it's just a series of here, click this, do this, type this and that's something that i want to avoid doing because i want you guys to be able to actually learn and not just follow a bunch of steps. Because eventually, you know, i'm teaching you guys how to fish so that you can fish for yourself and not just giving you the fish, if you've heard that parable before. So there's going to be a little pain in learning but you're going to reap the benefits. All right, so until the next video, i'll see you guys soon. Bye!