Design has always been something many developers also want to learn about. Unfortunately, whenever they explore design related topics, they often feel intimidated because they feel that they do not possess a level of creativity or artistry to tackle the design part of app development. This is probably the reason why some would just stick to building an app and submitting it to the app store without exploring the design part of things. But what if I told you that you can still achieve a great looking app, even if you're not creative or artistic in nature, just like me? Hey, Code Crew, it's JC here. Designer at Code is Chris, and I'll be taking over this week's app tutorial. So if you remember, two weeks ago, we released a community poll to ask which design, release, topic or tutorial you want us to do. And to our surprise, most of you actually wanted to learn how to design and eventually called a delivery tracker. So in this tutorial, we'll jump right into Figma and to do just that, you can access Figma on your browser by typing Figma. Com, or you can also visit Figma. Com downloads and download the desktop app for free. If you've never touched on Figma before, don't worry, because we have a lot of Figma basics tutorials that you can explore by kicking the card on top. Also, before we go deeper, when we say Delivery tracker that doesn't refer to something like Uber or any food delivery app, we don't want to get your hopes up because the design and development of something like that can be very complex. We'll just focus on something like a logistics tracking service like FedEx DHL Ups, you name it. And for this lesson, we will just focus on designing two screens of such app, the Homepage and the Results page. Since we're all beginners here, we want this app to be simple, focus and straightforward while still maintaining that fresh, green and modern look or UI. Like I mentioned, we will only average our problem solving skills here and not much on the artistic or creative side of things. Don't worry, I'm sure that will still create a really good app design by the end of this tutorial, specifically, one that looks something like this. So what you're seeing on screen right now is the finished product of the Delivery tracker app. We'll use this as a reference so that we don't have to start from scratch, because in this case, it's going to be a very long video. All right, so first things first, we need to make sure that we have the right plugins for our icons. We use Icons eight here at Code is Chris, but you can definitely use other plugins out there on the Figma community. Simply click on the Figma button, click on Plugins and browse Plugins and Community and search for icons. So right here you can see click on plugin right here, you can see a lot of icon plugins that you can choose from. So we have icons eight Material Design, Feather and fund also icons. Let me reinstall this. Alright. So once you have any icon plugin installed, let's go back and then let's click on F, Press F or click on the Frame tool and click on iphone Eleven Pro or iphone Ten reset. And let's name this as the home. Now we want this. We want to set the background color to something a little darker because we don't want pure white on our user interface. We need to have that level of dimension. So let's say sounds good. So this one is API seven F, eight F nine. If you want to copy this. Xcode next is to implement a layout grid system in this frame. So click on the frame, click on Layout grid the plus icon. Then click on this dot here. Click select columns and then type and four API a stretch margin of 20 and gather of. Alright, so this is the four point grid system. So every value should be divisible by four to make things responsive when they are scaled up or scaled down. So once that's done, you can actually adjust the color of this. If you want something that's less obtrusive, so maybe blue, then put it something like that. Ten. Alright, that's a lot better. Alright, so now next step is create that header. Alright. So now that we have the grids and the background color, it's time to create that content on that screen. First things first as the header. There are the menu bar. So this is a simple menu bar so you can see right here this symbol menu icon. So head over to your icons. Eight plugin or whatever icons plugin you can download it. But for menu, just type in menu and then the drug and drop on your workspace as you can see right there. Alright, so let's set this to 32, make sure that it's big enough or screen and just drag it right there. So if you want to hide the layout grid, if it's still inclusive or is disrupting you, you can click on the icon here or you can press control G if you're on a Mac. Alright, so another that's clear. Let's type in the main content of this home screen. Our home page. Say enter your tracking number here or enter your tracking number is good. You can choose whatever font you like. Just make sure that it's in bold or size 24 or around that size. That drag a here. Let's say let's make sure that it's aligned in our grid. All right. Next is that input field. So to create an input field, it's very simple. Just type in your place folder first and a random number like that and then press shift eight, then that converts your text into an auto layout. So this is the input field. And then what you're going to do is to click on fill and make sure that it's on pure white so that's six apps and make sure that the padding and this one is 20 2012 and twelve or maybe 16. Alright, so one app dot put app here and just stretch it. Who decides? Turn on the grid and then make sure that it snaps for the grids. Turn off the grid and now you're done. You can also add a shadow here to add a little bit mention. So click on EFC. Click on the plus icon. Drop shadow blur is ten and the Alpha is on ten or the transparency step can also reduce that to plenty if you like that's looking good. Also the tax is a little bit harsh. Let's convert this to regular and size for clean. Now next is we'll create a tip or a hint or instruction below this input stroke. So press the plus icon, crack multiple acres or multiple items. Just trace that below the input filled and adjust the color. Or maybe something like Gray or let's say something like this. I like that. That's a lot better. Enter a tracking number. Let's change this to one of our colors. Colors, colors. You can choose whatever color you're like, but for this instance we'll be using colors color in blue and then same goes for our input place holder. It will be on the like wrap. I think. I think the drop shadow is a little bit harsh still, so let's just make this to five. All right to fill out better. If you want to adjust the gap between these two items, just click on one, then hold Swift, click on another one and then this is the app. Between them are the margins between them so you can just them if you like. I would say twelve or 14 or 16. Lot better. Let's make sure that this is also 16. I have equal spacing between those three API. The next item on our list is the track button. So to create a button, just type in track type in the text first and then press Swift A and were that all the layout, then make sure that this is 32 to 16 and 1616 on top and volume and 32 on left and right and then convert the fill press on file present plus, then select the Cosmos Chris Blue and then change the color of that text and to pure white. That's good enough contrast and change the font intensity to both right. And also. I think I want to change the corner radius of this. So if you click on this and select corner radius type in four, make it a little bit rounder. That's it. Then I think we should just make the same with as the input code so as you can see it's still funky. It's not placed in the middle. So what you're going to do is just click on this frame or this button and just click on make sure it's horizontally and vertically centered, right? Just like that. So select all its heart. It's aligned properly and that's it. I think we have a very clean, very modern looking UI for the homepage. By the way, one last thing is to change this color to blue, make sure that it's consistent across the screen. And also we forgot to add an icon here. So if you want icons here, you have the path icon here already. You just type in like that and place it here. So this is the beauty of auto layout, because if you drag something inside, that all the layout to automatically fit the item within it for you where you don't have to worry about limitations and all those things. So click on the frame the parent frame, and then click on space between and that's it and make sure that they are horizontally or vertically centered. And then let's adjust the colors of this to something like the Cognis. Chris blue. Alright, that's a lot better. Maybe 24. Alright, that's a lot better. Api so we are done designing our home page. Next thing we want to do is to design that results page. So what we're going to do next is just to duplicate this homepage. You can press command and so command C and command V. Just copy paste the frame and rename the still results and just delete some items here. And let's just keep this menu icon because we'll be using that later. So next thing we want to do is to implement that. Previous icon or back icon. So go back to our icons a plug in and then press or look for back icon or left arrow stuff like that. I think that's good. It's good. I think this one's closest. Alright, so let's change this to 32. So by the way, make sure the constraint proportions is on because you want them to be in the same with same height all the time. So go to selection colors, make sure that it's blue again. Alright. So now that we have this two icons, you want to make sure that they are in the same role. Right. So the either way is to place them just something like this and you're done. But the more efficient or I'd say a bit more advanced thing to do is to select them both and then press Swift A and now you have them both in an OTT layout. So when you press Swift A, they are now grouped together. But more importantly they are within. They are not positioned within a container. So that makes them responsive when this device is showed up or down. So make sure that this is zero and this is space between snap this on the left and snap this to the right. So there is a lot better compared to what we did a while ago because when you scale this down to a smaller screen, for example, then the icons will adapt to that size. So this is like one of the benefits of auto layout. If you learn auto layout the Xcode, this is basically the same thing. By the way, we need to make sure that our menu items are at least 44 pixels from the top. So just set this to 44 and you're good to go. It's Apple that here as well. Orfor so. The reason for this is because we need to consider the notch on the iphone and that notch will take up at least I think 20 pixels of screen real estate. So yeah, that's why we put it 44 pixels from the top. Alright. So the next thing we need to do is to write that subtitle like you are currently tracking the senses, the results screen. We need to make sure that they are a the users tracking whatever number. So duplicate list copy paste and then random number something like that and then estimated the date of delivery. Let's say September 3021. Now that's too big. So let's just set the font regular, then 14 and then this one you can keep it to 24, reduce the kerning and then place auto they are currently tracking is list 16. I'm bald and auto and then fill. Let's hide the grid. For now you are currently tracking and let's change the color of this number to blue, change the color of this to something like I think Gray is good. Alright, so API auto as well. Narrow or maybe and then set this to regular. We need to make sure that this is also in Gray. Alright, we're currently tracking. Let's get this back end board, make sure that the gap between this tree are divisible by four as well. So maybe four as well. That's good. Alright, alright. So this is the fun part. So this is the results page or the tracking information. So as you can see, we have the date, the time and the status of that order. Do that here date September 6 and 21 and then time the 50. 0400 p.m. And then we want to make sure that we're using military time so that we can avoid using Am and PM in the text. It also saves us from some space. Twelve next is essential for pickup and then that's right. Yeah, and the crew of that. Alright, so they are all booked together. Now what we want to do is to make sure that scheduled for pickup is highlight, make sure that it's 18 or maybe 16 and the date and time are less empathize. Maybe twelve Bolt or maybe just keep it to twelve. App them to Gray and schedule for pick up is also in Gray. My name. Alright, that's better. Now let's also add circle which will serve as an indicator of this. Then I like that. Make sure that it's aligned. Control G my brains are not showing because it's the eye is turned off to make sure that everything is aligned to the left. Alright. So now that we have this indicator, next thing we want to do is to just group them and then duplicate them. Hold option and drag all option drag, all option drag and make sure that they are evenly spaced and all aligns to left. So once they're evenly space, click on this margin and make sure that they are divisible by four again. So in terms of at least 16 or maybe if it's too tight and make it 24, that's cleaner. Alright, next thing we want to do to change the text here. So schedule for pick up next is pick up my career. Next is departed. The shipping failed and arrived at shipping facility September 29, September 28 and September 27 and maybe 19 it's for there's time for and doesn't really matter. This is just a template anyway. All right. So we're almost done with our design. I think we're 90% on. One. Last thing is to design that filter which contains the recipient details. So let's just Press F or our frame tool and then drag it here and then add the clean white color hide grid because the disturbing and then just type in recent details and then under one is the name on their accent. So I'd say Chander bang and then the dress of that receiver is 15. Yes, even with the contact number of I say 1234582, two and four, five six. That's just a random number. And then we need to make sure that they are aligned evenly distributed. And now let's make the font adjustment ments from here. So 24 or maybe 18 Bolt auto and I think that's cool. I don't think we should change that. Alright. Chandler Bing 14 is okay, but I want to change the color of this the Gray again because I don't like using plain black and our UI great wine is okay, change it to blue and there we go. We now have that UI. Now if you want to be a little more advanced, just a little, you can press shift a and that converts them into another layout and drag this container right here and name this container data rate and drag this to something like this. So drag this from edge to edge and set the padding API 20 and then 20 again and then 24 a 74. So now you can do it just like that. Oh, by the way, we forgot to change the color of this to blue. Alright, so where are done? One last thing is to copy this button right here. Select the frame results frame and then paste track, then just drop it below this container. And now you have the track button. And if they want to track in art, there's a dedicated button just for that. Alright, so we're almost done. We just need to do one last thing. So I promise is the one last thing. So you can notice there's a lot of space here. So we don't want to waste that screen real state. So you just need to make sure to drag this like that and then place it API, maybe 1234 for the pixels below that navigation was done. Click on this. And now that's an evenly space out with you properly utilizing the screen real estate of the iphone. And if you click on Present, this is what it would look like on an actual phone. So when you enter your tracking number here contract and then you'll be redirected to that results page. All right, so that's how you create a very clean, simple, modern and goodlooking delivery tracker app in Figma. I hope you found this tutorial very useful because creating goodlooking you eyes doesn't really require a lot of creative thinking as others think it would. All it needs is an understanding of the users behavior so that you can design and build an app that will surely make them happy. If you remember a while ago I introduced you to powerful Figma features such as other layout that lets you design components responsibly. If you want to learn more about auto layout in Figma, then make sure to head over our website and enroll in our CWC press program because we will be releasing an exclusive that'snot about auto layout very soon. And if you want to learn more about designing Enigma or iOS app design, you should check out our iOS design course that's also exclusively on Cwt Plus. As always. Thank you so much for watching and we'll see you in the next video.