With timestamps:

00:00 - In this video I want to give you kind of a road 
map of how to get into the IT world, because if  
00:07 - you're watching this video you are most probably 
thinking about starting your career in IT.  
00:12 - Well, the tech industry is currently one of 
the hottest industries for the job market,  
00:17 - so it's completely logical that so many people are 
thinking about changing careers to tech or getting  
00:23 - into Tech just after graduating from school or 
college. And it's true that tech industry offers  
00:29 - lots of career opportunities, but when you are at 
the very beginning of your journey it can be very  
00:35 - overwhelming too. It is a broad industry with so 
many options, so many IT fields and professions.  
00:42 - There is so much to learn and often you don't 
even know where to start. It's also hard to know  
00:47 - which IT field you will be interested in and will 
eventually choose, before actually trying things  
00:53 - out and seeing for yourself what you enjoy doing 
the most. You may even have self-doubt thinking  
00:59 - that it's too late to switch careers or there's 
so much to learn you can never catch up with the  
01:04 - people, who have been in tech since early age. And 
I understand all these concerns, the self-doubt,  
01:11 - the time pressure, insecure not knowing where and 
how to start etc. And that's why with this video  
01:18 - I want to kind of show you various career path 
in tech and give you some general guidance for  
01:25 - how to get started. And for every IT field, we 
will see whether it's an entry-level profession,  
01:31 - what they actually do and what are some of their 
job responsibilities as well as what skills you  
01:37 - need to have to get into that specific field and 
some of the technologies you need to learn for it.
01:45 - First of all, I want to start by saying that 
it's never too late to get into IT. I myself  
01:51 - transitioned from my marketing and business 
studies and had nothing to do with IT before  
01:56 - not even an IT subject at school or college and 
switching my career to tech was probably one of  
02:04 - the best decisions of my life! This field is 
becoming more popular every year and it comes  
02:09 - with so many benefits and opportunities for 
people working in this field. Plus it's an  
02:15 - interesting exciting and fulfilling field to be 
in no matter which specialization you choose.  
02:22 - So let's see what are actually some of 
the most popular IT professions today,  
02:27 - that will be even more demanded in the future, 
so what options you have for IT jobs that you may  
02:32 - want to specialize in. Of course there are many 
different statistics and rankings out there and  
02:38 - many names for the similar jobs, but there are 
several professions that definitely stand out,  
02:44 - which have become the most popular. The popular 
and demanded jobs in IT are usually paid very  
02:51 - high, so many of those rankings are also 
based on salary and career growth statistics.  
02:57 - Based on several rankings, the most demanded 
and popular IT fields that have been growing  
03:04 - in popularity even more over the years are: 
software engineering, DevOps engineering,  
03:09 - cloud engineering, cyber security or security 
engineering, data engineering or generally data  
03:16 - related professions and machine learning 
engineering. And these top fields will  
03:21 - actually be even more demanded in the future. So 
there is a lot of growth and future potential in  
03:28 - each one of those fields. So most of you will 
probably want to get into one of those fields,  
03:33 - but many of you as I said may not know right now 
what you want to choose exactly, maybe because  
03:39 - they all sound equally exciting for you or equally 
overwhelming so you have no idea which one will  
03:45 - be a better choice or which one will be the most 
interesting one for you, which is absolutely okay,  
03:51 - because that's exactly what I want to help 
you with in this video so let's get into it!
04:00 - First of all, it's absolutely fine to try out 
multiple things to see what you like the most.  
04:07 - In fact, it's a really good idea, because you 
have so many opportunities, so many options,  
04:13 - so you want to take advantage of that and find the 
one that fits you the best. However, you need to  
04:19 - approach this with some structure, just randomly 
learning things here and there in the hope to make  
04:25 - sense of many things at once or even worse trying 
to learn multiple of those fields at once is not a  
04:32 - good strategy. It will make your learning journey 
difficult and it will surely make it longer as  
04:37 - well and you won't properly find out what field 
you like the most. So let me help you structure  
04:44 - your learning process by laying out the map that 
shows you all these professions individually and  
04:51 - the learning path to those as well as any overlaps 
and common knowledge between them. Let's start  
04:57 - with the broadest and the most widely least spread 
IT field, which is software engineering. I believe  
05:03 - it's also the easiest entry point into IT and 
where most people actually start their IT careers  
05:09 - and that's how I started as well. A software 
developer or software engineer is someone,  
05:14 - who develops any kind of software applications. 
This can be a web application a mobile or a  
05:21 - desktop application, whenever you think of any 
software, whether it's on your computer the mobile  
05:27 - phone in your smart TV. So for example, Amazon, 
Netflix and all these applications you use on  
05:33 - your smart TV. These are all software. Or think 
about smart cars, again these are applications  
05:38 - for navigation and some other controls of 
the car. You have smart homes, software in  
05:44 - production machines and robots. So these are 
all software developed by software engineers.  
05:49 - But software engineer is a very broad term itself 
and covers many subfields and you can actually  
05:56 - specialize in any of those subfields since they 
are each their own separate professions. For  
06:03 - example, you can become a "frontend developer", 
which is basically developing the front of the  
06:09 - application, the part that the users see in their 
browser or their phone screen or TV screen. You  
06:15 - can become a "backend developer" and develop 
the backend part of the application, the part  
06:20 - that connects to the database, saves and updates 
user data, processes data and so on. Or you can  
06:27 - become a "full stack developer". They're basically 
people, who can develop both frontend and backend  
06:31 - parts of the application. Then you also have 
categorizations like "web developer", which is  
06:37 - basically developing web applications that you see 
in a computer or laptop browser. You have mobile  
06:42 - app developers, which are developing applications 
for Android or iOS. You may be an "IoT developer",  
06:49 - which is "Internet of Things", like software in 
your car for your TV the smart home, the smart  
06:56 - lock systems for hotels etc. And you can even 
specialize in a specific technology or programming  
07:03 - language or even a framework. So you may choose to 
become a "Java developer" a "JavaScript developer"  
07:08 - or maybe a "React developer". You can specialize 
in Android development for mobile applications.  
07:13 - You can become a "Python developer". So these are 
all separate career paths, because each of these  
07:20 - is already such a big area and field on its own. 
So you can go deeper into a chosen technology or  
07:27 - area or you can go broader and become a full 
stack engineer as I mentioned. And both have  
07:33 - their values. You need experts in one specific 
area, but you also need people, who have a good  
07:38 - overview and knowledge of many things on a higher 
level and that's really a personal preference,  
07:44 - whether you are a generalist or a specialist, so 
you can decide what you like more. I am personally  
07:50 - a generalist. I like knowing many things and 
how they fit together and integrate together  
07:55 - and knowing things on a high level, rather than 
deepening my knowledge in one specific area,  
08:00 - but as I said that's a really personal preference. 
However, no matter which of these professions or  
08:08 - subfields you choose, you have a pretty similar 
entry point for all of those. You have to first  
08:13 - understand basics of software development and 
programming. For example you take any programming  
08:19 - language and learn the basics of programming with 
that language. Things like variables, functions,  
08:25 - data types and so on, because these concepts are 
actually the same for every programming language,  
08:31 - no matter whether it's mobile, web, frontend or 
backend development. I usually suggest JavaScript  
08:38 - as the entry point language, if you want to 
get into any kind of software development,  
08:43 - because it can be used in frontend and backend 
and even in mobile application development,  
08:49 - plus it's easy to learn compared to Java for 
example. Once you get the basics right, the second  
08:55 - step will be to actually start developing simple 
example projects to really understand how software  
09:02 - is written from scratch. The complete setup of 
frontend and backend, whether it's a web or mobile  
09:08 - application, because that's how you really learn 
the concepts behind software development. I'm a  
09:14 - big fan of learning anything with an example 
project, rather than by book or watching some  
09:19 - tutorials passively. This way you're not learning 
just a specific language and what features they  
09:25 - have, you are learning how to develop an actual 
application that is usable. So depending on what  
09:33 - you want to specialize in, if it's web development 
you can learn HTML and CSS on top of JavaScript  
09:39 - and start creating a little bit more complex web 
applications with a database connection. If you  
09:45 - want to go into mobile development you can choose 
one of the languages for mobile development and  
09:51 - practice using that language. Every language has 
its advantages and disadvantages. Some of them  
09:56 - are cooler, some of them are more widely used, but 
the important thing is that you learn the concepts  
10:01 - first, because you can always learn the syntax 
or you can even Google the syntax, if you need  
10:07 - to. If you're not sure, which language you want 
to choose, always go for the most popular one,  
10:12 - because it increases your chances to get a job 
with that language and it has a large community  
10:17 - behind it and it has to be popular for a reason. 
So as I said, instead of learning features and  
10:24 - syntax of a language just one by one, take an 
example project either from web or think of  
10:30 - your own project and develop that. You will 
learn way more in that process of doing it,  
10:35 - but it has to be simple so you don't get stuck and 
overwhelmed in the process. And here's the thing,  
10:41 - if you are thinking: "what if I make the wrong 
choice and start with the wrong thing and find  
10:46 - out that I don't like it at all?" Well, if you 
start with backend web development for example  
10:51 - and after months of learning that, you realize 
it's not really for you and you like mobile app  
10:56 - development better, that knowledge is not wasted. 
You aren't starting from scratch. That knowledge  
11:02 - that you gained will help you switch to another 
area, plus you had a chance to find out what you  
11:08 - like and what you didn't like. In fact, that isn't 
wasted even if you decide you want to go into a  
11:14 - completely different area like data engineering 
or cloud engineering or DevOps. And I want to  
11:19 - say that, the fields in software engineering are 
usually the entry-level tech professions. So it's  
11:27 - relatively easy to get started in IT this way and 
later you can always transition to another tech  
11:33 - area. And as I said your knowledge will never be 
wasted, because lots of concepts are related and  
11:38 - interconnected in different areas of IT. Your 
programming skills will be useful even if you  
11:44 - go to machine learning or DevOps engineering. 
Important thing here is not to do everything  
11:50 - at once, as long as you build your knowledge 
in tech step by step, like one area at a time,  
11:56 - one programming language and technology at a time 
and stick to that for at least six months or so  
12:03 - and then move on to the next thing you should be 
fine. Just don't rush from one thing to another,  
12:09 - trying to absorb everything at once, which I know 
many of you are probably thinking to do. And if  
12:15 - you do want to start with this path, I actually 
have a mini bootcamp for learning everything you  
12:21 - need to know for web development specifically, 
full stack development with frontend, backend,  
12:26 - database connection plus even more the complete 
software development and release life cycle. And  
12:34 - my goal was exactly to make people's entry in 
IT easier and remove that fear of tackling this  
12:41 - scary thing of getting into tech, by making things 
simpler and easier. Plus with actual real projects  
12:47 - to make it fun and engaging. Just a shameless plug 
here for our IT beginners course. So if you want  
12:53 - to know more about that you can see the video, 
where I explain exactly what you learn there  
12:58 - in detail. Now as I said, you can use knowledge 
in software development in other IT fields and  
13:05 - software development is actually the best stepping 
stone to transition to our next most popular IT  
13:11 - role called "DevOps engineering". So DevOps field 
is rising in popularity year by year, it is the  
13:19 - field that I personally found extremely exciting 
and some years ago from being a senior software  
13:25 - engineer transitioned to DevOps and if you know 
my videos, you also know that my whole channel,  
13:31 - courses and educational programs are all about 
DevOps, but very important to note here that  
13:37 - DevOps is not really an entry-level IT profession. 
It is a bit more advanced, which means you need to  
13:43 - already have some engineering know-how in order to 
transition into DevOps, but what is DevOps anyway?  
13:50 - DevOps is all about automating the processes in 
the software development and release life cycle,  
13:57 - which means logically enough that you need to 
understand those processes and the whole life  
14:03 - cycle first so you know what you're automating. 
So DevOps is a more complex and difficult field,  
14:09 - which I do not recommend to start in if you 
have zero IT background, but if you build  
14:15 - up your knowledge step by step and you find it 
as interesting as I do, it can be an extremely  
14:21 - rewarding profession. It is a highly demanded and 
also highly paid IT profession, because there is  
14:28 - actually a big shortage of these professionals, 
probably way more than for software engineers. If  
14:35 - you want to know more about DevOps and what type 
of person it is for and what skills you need to  
14:41 - become a DevOps engineer, I actually recommend 
you watch my videos from my "DevOps as a career"  
14:46 - playlist, where I explain all of that in detail. 
So after watching them you will know exactly "nope  
14:53 - DevOps is definitely not for me" or "yes that's 
exactly what I want to do"! So make sure to check  
14:58 - them out, I will also link all the videos that I 
mentioned here down in the description as well.  
15:03 - Before we move on to the next profession though, 
I want to mention that lots of people transition  
15:08 - to DevOps not only from software development 
background but also from systems administration  
15:14 - or test automation or network engineering role 
and various other roles actually. I would say  
15:20 - IT professions that are becoming less demanded 
or less interesting are moving towards DevOps  
15:27 - engineering, because it is the new hot thing and 
if you don't already know about our famous DevOps  
15:33 - bootcamp. Two years ago we actually created the 
complete educational program to teach people all  
15:39 - the necessary tools and concepts to become a 
DevOps engineer. We have educated more than 2  
15:46 - 500 students with this bootcamp so far, but as 
I said the DevOps bootcamp is for people with  
15:52 - some level of IT experience or IT pre-knowledge. 
And that's why we created the IT Beginners mini  
15:58 - bootcamp to help people with the zero background 
learn the fundamentals first they need to,  
16:03 - to even get started into DevOps. So I created this 
course actually as a prerequisite for the DevOps  
16:09 - Bootcamp. So if after watching the "DevOps as a 
career" videos you decide you want to get into  
16:15 - DevOps, then these two educational programs will 
be the perfectly laid out path for you to get  
16:23 - there in the most efficient easy and fast way. But 
if you decided DevOps sounds like it's definitely  
16:29 - not for you, then you can consider one of the IT 
professions I'm going to talk about next in this  
16:35 - video. So let's continue! The next IT field, 
which is actually pretty related to DevOps  
16:41 - is cloud engineering. Very simply explained, a 
cloud engineer basically builds and maintains  
16:47 - infrastructure in the cloud. As many companies 
move from managing their own infrastructure  
16:53 - to using cloud platforms, Cloud Engineers are 
becoming increasingly demanded. Cloud engineering  
16:59 - is also an entry-level profession. If you have 
some basic systems administration experience,  
17:04 - then this will be probably the easiest IT 
field to transition into, but if you're a  
17:11 - complete IT beginner, you can actually start 
your IT journey directly here as well. So how  
17:16 - do you start in cloud engineering? Well in cloud 
engineering, there are actually two most popular  
17:21 - cloud platforms out there, which are Amazon's AWS 
and Microsoft's Azure. Both of them have various  
17:29 - certifications, which you can take to help you 
get a job as a cloud engineer for that specific  
17:34 - cloud platform. So if you want to get started 
in this, choose one of those cloud platforms  
17:40 - and start learning for their basic entry-level 
certifications and basically specialize in that  
17:46 - cloud platform. I personally suggest choosing AWS, 
because it is currently the biggest and most used  
17:54 - cloud platform. A good way to start here will be 
using AWS certification programs. AWS has multiple  
18:00 - certifications from basic cloud practitioner to 
more advanced certifications. So obviously start  
18:07 - with the basic AWS cloud practitioner certificate 
and start learning and preparing for that. This  
18:14 - will give you knowledge in all important AWS 
services, but more importantly in the main  
18:20 - concepts of cloud engineering in general. And 
remember I said, when you learn one programming  
18:26 - language, learning another programming language 
actually becomes way easier because you already  
18:30 - learned many of the common underlying concepts. 
The same way if you at some point decide to go for  
18:36 - Azure after learning AWS or you find a dream job 
at a dream company, who uses Google Cloud platform  
18:43 - instead, you can learn them way easier, because 
you already have learned one Cloud platform and  
18:50 - the basics of cloud with that platform. In fact 
learning two cloud platforms will be a major  
18:56 - asset, because you now have a good comparison 
between them. So the best starting point will  
19:02 - be getting the cloud practitioner certificate 
from AWS to get you the first job in this field.  
19:09 - Now I want to mention here that DevOps and Cloud 
often fall into the same category and often they  
19:15 - get mixed up. However even though they have 
some overlaps, they are actually two very  
19:21 - different fields and I plan to create a separate 
video for DevOps engineer versus Cloud engineer  
19:27 - describing in detail what are the common tasks and 
responsibilities, those overlaps as well as what  
19:34 - actually differentiates them. So you understand 
exactly the difference between these two  
19:39 - fields. So be sure to subscribe and activate the 
notification bell, if you don't want to miss that.  
19:44 - Now cloud, DevOps and software engineering fields 
have one thing in common, they all need security.  
19:52 - When you build a cloud infrastructure you need 
to secure it, when you program an application  
19:57 - you need to make sure it doesn't have any security 
loopholes that hackers may use to hack into your  
20:03 - systems, when you build DevOps processes which 
actually affects your application, your cloud  
20:08 - infrastructure and many different systems, again 
you have even more security responsibilities to  
20:15 - make sure you don't expose passwords and secret 
keys to your systems etc. This means software  
20:21 - developers, cloud engineers and DevOps engineers 
they all have to know about security. But security  
20:27 - is an extremely large field and it affects every 
piece and step of the software development and  
20:33 - release life cycle and you have security in 
other IT fields as well. So we actually have  
20:39 - a separate dedicated profession for IT security 
engineers who specialize in all things security.  
20:47 - As a security professional you know security 
tools and technologies that help you scan and  
20:54 - identify security issues at different levels as 
well as help fix them and also validate that other  
21:01 - engineers have secured their systems properly. 
There are even external security companies who  
21:08 - provide services to other companies to secure 
their systems. For example they try to hack into  
21:14 - their systems and see where the systems of the 
company are vulnerable, because if they can hack  
21:21 - into them, actual hackers can also do that. So as 
a security engineer you identify those vulnerable  
21:27 - points and advise the company how to secure them. 
Also security as I said is on multiple levels,  
21:34 - every system, every software, that companies 
using or developing needs to be secured: so  
21:40 - the infrastructure, the application platform, the 
frontend, the backhand, database, the application  
21:46 - itself. So security engineers usually have a wider 
cross knowledge of security on all those levels  
21:54 - and can plan a general strategy of securing 
the complete setup using various technologies  
22:01 - for automating security checks and security 
testing and so on. And it goes without saying  
22:07 - that security engineers have extreme value to the 
companies, because security breach is the worst  
22:13 - scenario for any big known company. Cyber attacks 
are becoming more and more sophisticated and for  
22:21 - applications, who have millions or hundreds of 
millions of users and the user data obviously  
22:27 - the impact of the attack is huge, when data of so 
many users is compromised or even think about your  
22:34 - online banking application. Obviously you don't 
want them to have any security issues in their  
22:39 - system, right? For this reason there is usually a 
tremendous demand for security engineers in many  
22:45 - industries and it's definitely going to become 
even more important in the future. So if you  
22:51 - want to go on this challenging but very exciting 
path you need to first understand the concepts of  
22:57 - what you are securing. So this is also not really 
an entry-level IT position, you definitely need  
23:03 - some pre-knowledge in one of the IT fields like 
network engineering, cloud engineering, software  
23:09 - development etc. And on top of that you'll have to 
learn many security concepts and tools in order to  
23:15 - develop this general security strategies. When 
talking about security, passwords and secret  
23:21 - data is a critical part, so before moving on I 
want to give a shout out to Passbolt who made  
23:27 - this video possible. Passbolt is an open source 
password manager for agile and DevOps teams and  
23:34 - is built for collaboration. With Passbolt you can 
securely generate, store, manage and monitor your  
23:41 - team's credentials. The security model is built on 
strong foundations such as: end-to-end encryption,  
23:47 - granular access rights, it is audited regularly 
by third party entities, but you can actually  
23:54 - audit it yourself, because it's 100% open 
source, even the commercial version of it.  
23:59 - And for maximum privacy you can deploy your own 
self-hosted Passbolt server within minutes from a  
24:07 - Raspberry Pi to a high availability setup and then 
put it behind your firewall. And also important to  
24:14 - note that Passbolt does not require an internet 
connection to be functional. So be sure to check  
24:19 - them out, the link is in the video description. 
Now let's move on with the next career path. One  
24:26 - of the hottest IT jobs, which are more in demand 
than ever are data related jobs. Now why is that?  
24:34 - When we have software that millions and billions 
of people use daily, those users produce loads of  
24:41 - data, right? Think about social media, the 
posts and media we create and upload every  
24:47 - minute or every second. Think about search data 
generated when millions of people search daily,  
24:52 - GPS data from Google Maps or other applications 
that track your location, when you buy groceries  
24:58 - at the supermarket, when you buy stuff online. 
So basically the user behavior data. All of  
25:04 - this is data that we humans produce daily 
through our digital footprint. But apart from  
25:11 - this human generated data there is also massive 
amounts of device generated data, such as cars,  
25:18 - IoT systems through sensors, production machines, 
robots, logistics data, shipment tracking. So even  
25:25 - more data than humans generate is coming from 
these sources. With all this, the data has grown  
25:31 - dramatically in the last years. In fact worlds 
90% of the data was actually generated in the  
25:38 - last two years. As some sources mentioned, we 
generate so much data, every single day that if  
25:44 - it were written down in form of books and we 
could pile those books on top of each other,  
25:49 - we would have enough to build a bridge to the moon 
and back. And because of the sheer volume of this  
25:56 - data, we also call it "Big Data". So that's where 
the term comes from. Data has become a precious  
26:03 - asset of any organization, because it helps them 
understand things better. Like make predictions,  
26:09 - political campaigns are driven by data, like 
you have polls and online searches etc. Many  
26:15 - companies use data to optimize their processes, to 
save time and money in those processes. However,  
26:21 - just raw data has no value to the company. Imagine 
these are massive amounts of data in raw form,  
26:28 - generated in different formats and from different 
sources. It's really difficult for humans to make  
26:34 - sense of data in this form. It only has value 
once the data is processed, cleaned, analyzed and  
26:42 - visualized. So it's easy to consume for us humans 
and big data related professionals are exactly  
26:50 - the ones, who use tools to turn these massive 
amounts of data into usable and extremely valuable  
26:57 - information for companies. And companies can 
then use these visualized data to make decisions,  
27:04 - make future predictions, cost optimizations and so 
on. And there are various data related professions  
27:11 - with different tasks and responsibilities such as 
data analysts, data scientists and data engineer.  
27:17 - So let's see comparisons between them. "Data 
analyst" is basically the entry-level profession  
27:24 - if you want to get into this field and is the 
easiest to start with. As the name suggests,  
27:29 - data analysts analyze and interpret data to 
extract meaningful information from it. So  
27:36 - they need to basically make sense of the data, 
like identify any patterns. The main skills they  
27:43 - need to have are knowledge of math and statistics 
and various tools that help them in data analytics  
27:49 - and data visualization. But in addition to the 
technical skills, data analysts must actually  
27:56 - have a good business and product understanding. So 
they analyze the data with the goal to make good  
28:02 - decisions for the business and product development 
and then communicate those decisions to people,  
28:08 - who actually need them like, product owners, 
business decision makers in the company. However,  
28:13 - data analysts work with already processed and 
prepared data. So the raw data needs to be  
28:19 - collected from multiple sources with different 
formats and be processed first to be usable  
28:26 - for the data analysts. And this is something that 
"data engineers" do. Data engineers need knowledge  
28:33 - of databases and programming to do their job and 
data engineers actually build something called  
28:39 - "data pipelines" to collect, store and process 
the data. So you can start into data engineering  
28:45 - by learning a programming language like Python 
and its data processing frameworks and libraries,  
28:51 - learning databases and query language like SQL 
for example and big data specific frameworks  
28:58 - like Apache Hadoop, which is a popular framework 
that allows you to store and work with massive  
29:05 - amounts of data. And the third one I mentioned is 
a "data scientist", which is usually the highest  
29:11 - paid profession among these three. Now interesting 
to mention that companies often use data analysts  
29:18 - and data scientists job titles interchangeably. 
Now they are two different professions, but there  
29:24 - are definitely some overlaps between those two. 
And one of the overlaps is that you need to have  
29:30 - advanced math and statistics knowledge here as 
well. So generally contrary to the popular belief,  
29:37 - you don't need any math or statistics knowledge 
for software development and definitely not for  
29:43 - DevOps or cloud engineering, but in data science 
or data analytics you will be working with math  
29:49 - and statistics a lot. This means if you want 
to get started in one of those fields, the  
29:56 - first thing you need to learn is statistics and 
the programming languages for statistics like R  
30:01 - or Python. However in addition to statistics, data 
scientists usually require more advanced technical  
30:10 - skills than data analysts and that's where the 
main difference between those two professions  
30:15 - lie. So data scientists are usually more 
experienced engineers, who can create advanced  
30:21 - machine learning models for example and algorithms 
to make future predictions. Which leads us to the  
30:27 - next and final hottest IT profession called a 
"Machine Learning Engineer", which actually is  
30:33 - yet another big data related profession. We said 
that data analysts and data scientists use data  
30:40 - to analyze trends and identify patterns and make 
some decisions and predictions based on the data.  
30:47 - So data can be used by humans to make data-driven 
decisions, but data can also be used by machines  
30:54 - by programs, so that clean processed data that 
data engineers prepare can be fed into machines,  
31:02 - so they can learn from them and they can use them 
for different tasks. And that's where machine  
31:08 - learning actually comes in. Now what is machine 
learning exactly and why do machines need data,  
31:14 - what do they do with it? In software development 
we write programs and instruct them to do  
31:21 - something. In machine learning, machines can 
perform a task without being explicitly programmed  
31:27 - to do so. How do they do that? They learn how 
to perform that task from large amounts of data  
31:34 - using algorithms, which are also called machine 
learning algorithms. So machine learning is about  
31:40 - computers being able to think and act without 
being explicitly told or programmed to do so  
31:48 - and there are two main parts of this process. 
First one is writing the machine learning  
31:54 - algorithms so that machines can use them to 
learn and the second part is feeding large  
32:00 - sets of processed data into those algorithms, 
so basically using the data to train the model.  
32:07 - Again there are some overlaps between data 
scientists and machine learning engineers that  
32:13 - you will encounter, they both need strong math 
and statistics skills to work with data, however,  
32:20 - while data scientists focus on making sense of 
the data, visualizing and presenting it better,  
32:27 - machine learning focuses on using the data for 
machines to learn to carry out certain tasks.  
32:34 - So entry into machine learning engineering is 
actually pretty similar to data science. You  
32:40 - need to start by learning a programming language 
like Python, which has powerful machine learning  
32:45 - frameworks and statistics, which is a 
very important part of machine learning  
32:50 - engineering. Now you probably already noticed 
that in all those fields I actually mentioned  
32:56 - Python programming language and that's because 
Python is a general purpose language. You can  
33:03 - use it in every single one of those areas, 
however that does not mean that you need the  
33:09 - same Python knowledge in each field. Using Python 
for web development is completely different from  
33:16 - using Python for DevOps automation or machine 
learning and that's an important difference. So  
33:22 - first you learn the Python core with its syntax 
and general programming concepts and then you  
33:29 - learn the specific libraries and frameworks 
for each IT field on top of that Python core.  
33:36 - So you have completely different frameworks 
and libraries for web development and machine  
33:40 - learning and DevOps automation, which you need to 
learn for that specific field. So you basically  
33:46 - learn different parts of Python for each field and 
that's an important thing to differentiate. Python  
33:52 - language just happens to have popular frameworks 
for all those fields and their use cases, but of  
33:59 - course the Python core is the same everywhere 
and if you want to learn Python core, like  
34:04 - syntax and programming concepts of Python, you 
can definitely check our free course on Python,  
34:10 - which I will link right here. So we've covered 
a bunch of career options in IT and I tried to  
34:16 - categorize them so you have a better overview and 
comparison between them. So hopefully something  
34:22 - stood out for you where you think: "well that 
field sounds pretty interesting to me so I'd  
34:28 - like to get into that field". Now of course when 
you know approximately which direction you want  
34:33 - to go and what you want to start learning, the 
next question becomes:"where and how do you learn  
34:40 - this?" Do you get a college degree in computer 
science? Do you take an online course? Do you join  
34:46 - a data science bootcamp or a coding bootcamp or 
our DevOps bootcamp? Well, I personally started my  
34:53 - informatics studies at a technical university, but 
I was using mostly online resources for my studies  
35:00 - like YouTube videos and some coding websites. 
And as soon as I got an internship as a software  
35:07 - developer in my second semester, I actually quit 
my studies and used my work to learn by doing,  
35:14 - because at work I was actually learning way more 
practical stuff that I actually needed for my  
35:20 - job than at the university. But learning at work 
wasn't always easy, so I continued learning new  
35:27 - things from YouTube videos and blog articles and 
online courses. I was often all over the place  
35:33 - trying to learn anything and everything that I 
stumbled upon. I didn't really have a roadmap  
35:38 - that I could follow, but it was still useful in 
some way. So I still think that online resources  
35:43 - are one of the best ways to learn, especially 
in IT field, but as I said having some kind  
35:49 - of road map and structure definitely makes the 
learning journey easier, because you don't just  
35:54 - learn things randomly, but you learn things in a 
certain order without being distracted by massive  
36:00 - amounts of information. So whatever field you 
want to choose: Go find a clear roadmap for that  
36:06 - profession. There are various articles and videos 
about those roadmaps and then just try to follow  
36:12 - that roadmap. And of course if you decide for 
DevOps, as I mentioned we have a complete roadmap  
36:18 - for that, even if you're starting off without 
any IT background, so you don't need to do the  
36:24 - research, put together a learning course and find 
good resources. We have done that whole work for  
36:30 - you. You just follow along and learn by doing 
and if you know my videos I create the content  
36:35 - with the goal of giving practical actual usable 
knowledge with easy explanations. I love helping  
36:43 - people learn easily without getting frustrated and 
being overwhelmed. So generally as you see, you  
36:49 - have various options, choose an entry-level career 
based on what you want to do later and you can  
36:56 - build on top of that. And again no knowledge is 
wasted in IT, everything is still interconnected,  
37:02 - so if you start in software development and 
later want to do DevOps or machine learning  
37:07 - or cloud engineering you can still benefit from 
that knowledge and won't be starting from scratch  
37:13 - in that field. So if you don't know yet where 
you want to end up you can start with any one of  
37:19 - those, maybe the easiest one and you can always 
progress in any other direction later. I hope I  
37:26 - was able to help you make these important decision 
for your future, you definitely made the right  
37:32 - decision by choosing IT in general. With that, 
all the best and see you in the next video! :)

Cleaned transcript:

In this video I want to give you kind of a road map of how to get into the IT world, because if you're watching this video you are most probably thinking about starting your career in IT. Well, the tech industry is currently one of the hottest industries for the job market, so it's completely logical that so many people are thinking about changing careers to tech or getting into Tech just after graduating from school or college. And it's true that tech industry offers lots of career opportunities, but when you are at the very beginning of your journey it can be very overwhelming too. It is a broad industry with so many options, so many IT fields and professions. There is so much to learn and often you don't even know where to start. It's also hard to know which IT field you will be interested in and will eventually choose, before actually trying things out and seeing for yourself what you enjoy doing the most. You may even have selfdoubt thinking that it's too late to switch careers or there's so much to learn you can never catch up with the people, who have been in tech since early age. And I understand all these concerns, the selfdoubt, the time pressure, insecure not knowing where and how to start etc. And that's why with this video I want to kind of show you various career path in tech and give you some general guidance for how to get started. And for every IT field, we will see whether it's an entrylevel profession, what they actually do and what are some of their job responsibilities as well as what skills you need to have to get into that specific field and some of the technologies you need to learn for it. First of all, I want to start by saying that it's never too late to get into IT. I myself transitioned from my marketing and business studies and had nothing to do with IT before not even an IT subject at school or college and switching my career to tech was probably one of the best decisions of my life! This field is becoming more popular every year and it comes with so many benefits and opportunities for people working in this field. Plus it's an interesting exciting and fulfilling field to be in no matter which specialization you choose. So let's see what are actually some of the most popular IT professions today, that will be even more demanded in the future, so what options you have for IT jobs that you may want to specialize in. Of course there are many different statistics and rankings out there and many names for the similar jobs, but there are several professions that definitely stand out, which have become the most popular. The popular and demanded jobs in IT are usually paid very high, so many of those rankings are also based on salary and career growth statistics. Based on several rankings, the most demanded and popular IT fields that have been growing in popularity even more over the years are software engineering, DevOps engineering, cloud engineering, cyber security or security engineering, data engineering or generally data related professions and machine learning engineering. And these top fields will actually be even more demanded in the future. So there is a lot of growth and future potential in each one of those fields. So most of you will probably want to get into one of those fields, but many of you as I said may not know right now what you want to choose exactly, maybe because they all sound equally exciting for you or equally overwhelming so you have no idea which one will be a better choice or which one will be the most interesting one for you, which is absolutely okay, because that's exactly what I want to help you with in this video so let's get into it! First of all, it's absolutely fine to try out multiple things to see what you like the most. In fact, it's a really good idea, because you have so many opportunities, so many options, so you want to take advantage of that and find the one that fits you the best. However, you need to approach this with some structure, just randomly learning things here and there in the hope to make sense of many things at once or even worse trying to learn multiple of those fields at once is not a good strategy. It will make your learning journey difficult and it will surely make it longer as well and you won't properly find out what field you like the most. So let me help you structure your learning process by laying out the map that shows you all these professions individually and the learning path to those as well as any overlaps and common knowledge between them. Let's start with the broadest and the most widely least spread IT field, which is software engineering. I believe it's also the easiest entry point into IT and where most people actually start their IT careers and that's how I started as well. A software developer or software engineer is someone, who develops any kind of software applications. This can be a web application a mobile or a desktop application, whenever you think of any software, whether it's on your computer the mobile phone in your smart TV. So for example, Amazon, Netflix and all these applications you use on your smart TV. These are all software. Or think about smart cars, again these are applications for navigation and some other controls of the car. You have smart homes, software in production machines and robots. So these are all software developed by software engineers. But software engineer is a very broad term itself and covers many subfields and you can actually specialize in any of those subfields since they are each their own separate professions. For example, you can become a "frontend developer", which is basically developing the front of the application, the part that the users see in their browser or their phone screen or TV screen. You can become a "backend developer" and develop the backend part of the application, the part that connects to the database, saves and updates user data, processes data and so on. Or you can become a "full stack developer". They're basically people, who can develop both frontend and backend parts of the application. Then you also have categorizations like "web developer", which is basically developing web applications that you see in a computer or laptop browser. You have mobile app developers, which are developing applications for Android or iOS. You may be an "IoT developer", which is "Internet of Things", like software in your car for your TV the smart home, the smart lock systems for hotels etc. And you can even specialize in a specific technology or programming language or even a framework. So you may choose to become a "Java developer" a "JavaScript developer" or maybe a "React developer". You can specialize in Android development for mobile applications. You can become a "Python developer". So these are all separate career paths, because each of these is already such a big area and field on its own. So you can go deeper into a chosen technology or area or you can go broader and become a full stack engineer as I mentioned. And both have their values. You need experts in one specific area, but you also need people, who have a good overview and knowledge of many things on a higher level and that's really a personal preference, whether you are a generalist or a specialist, so you can decide what you like more. I am personally a generalist. I like knowing many things and how they fit together and integrate together and knowing things on a high level, rather than deepening my knowledge in one specific area, but as I said that's a really personal preference. However, no matter which of these professions or subfields you choose, you have a pretty similar entry point for all of those. You have to first understand basics of software development and programming. For example you take any programming language and learn the basics of programming with that language. Things like variables, functions, data types and so on, because these concepts are actually the same for every programming language, no matter whether it's mobile, web, frontend or backend development. I usually suggest JavaScript as the entry point language, if you want to get into any kind of software development, because it can be used in frontend and backend and even in mobile application development, plus it's easy to learn compared to Java for example. Once you get the basics right, the second step will be to actually start developing simple example projects to really understand how software is written from scratch. The complete setup of frontend and backend, whether it's a web or mobile application, because that's how you really learn the concepts behind software development. I'm a big fan of learning anything with an example project, rather than by book or watching some tutorials passively. This way you're not learning just a specific language and what features they have, you are learning how to develop an actual application that is usable. So depending on what you want to specialize in, if it's web development you can learn HTML and CSS on top of JavaScript and start creating a little bit more complex web applications with a database connection. If you want to go into mobile development you can choose one of the languages for mobile development and practice using that language. Every language has its advantages and disadvantages. Some of them are cooler, some of them are more widely used, but the important thing is that you learn the concepts first, because you can always learn the syntax or you can even Google the syntax, if you need to. If you're not sure, which language you want to choose, always go for the most popular one, because it increases your chances to get a job with that language and it has a large community behind it and it has to be popular for a reason. So as I said, instead of learning features and syntax of a language just one by one, take an example project either from web or think of your own project and develop that. You will learn way more in that process of doing it, but it has to be simple so you don't get stuck and overwhelmed in the process. And here's the thing, if you are thinking "what if I make the wrong choice and start with the wrong thing and find out that I don't like it at all?" Well, if you start with backend web development for example and after months of learning that, you realize it's not really for you and you like mobile app development better, that knowledge is not wasted. You aren't starting from scratch. That knowledge that you gained will help you switch to another area, plus you had a chance to find out what you like and what you didn't like. In fact, that isn't wasted even if you decide you want to go into a completely different area like data engineering or cloud engineering or DevOps. And I want to say that, the fields in software engineering are usually the entrylevel tech professions. So it's relatively easy to get started in IT this way and later you can always transition to another tech area. And as I said your knowledge will never be wasted, because lots of concepts are related and interconnected in different areas of IT. Your programming skills will be useful even if you go to machine learning or DevOps engineering. Important thing here is not to do everything at once, as long as you build your knowledge in tech step by step, like one area at a time, one programming language and technology at a time and stick to that for at least six months or so and then move on to the next thing you should be fine. Just don't rush from one thing to another, trying to absorb everything at once, which I know many of you are probably thinking to do. And if you do want to start with this path, I actually have a mini bootcamp for learning everything you need to know for web development specifically, full stack development with frontend, backend, database connection plus even more the complete software development and release life cycle. And my goal was exactly to make people's entry in IT easier and remove that fear of tackling this scary thing of getting into tech, by making things simpler and easier. Plus with actual real projects to make it fun and engaging. Just a shameless plug here for our IT beginners course. So if you want to know more about that you can see the video, where I explain exactly what you learn there in detail. Now as I said, you can use knowledge in software development in other IT fields and software development is actually the best stepping stone to transition to our next most popular IT role called "DevOps engineering". So DevOps field is rising in popularity year by year, it is the field that I personally found extremely exciting and some years ago from being a senior software engineer transitioned to DevOps and if you know my videos, you also know that my whole channel, courses and educational programs are all about DevOps, but very important to note here that DevOps is not really an entrylevel IT profession. It is a bit more advanced, which means you need to already have some engineering knowhow in order to transition into DevOps, but what is DevOps anyway? DevOps is all about automating the processes in the software development and release life cycle, which means logically enough that you need to understand those processes and the whole life cycle first so you know what you're automating. So DevOps is a more complex and difficult field, which I do not recommend to start in if you have zero IT background, but if you build up your knowledge step by step and you find it as interesting as I do, it can be an extremely rewarding profession. It is a highly demanded and also highly paid IT profession, because there is actually a big shortage of these professionals, probably way more than for software engineers. If you want to know more about DevOps and what type of person it is for and what skills you need to become a DevOps engineer, I actually recommend you watch my videos from my "DevOps as a career" playlist, where I explain all of that in detail. So after watching them you will know exactly "nope DevOps is definitely not for me" or "yes that's exactly what I want to do"! So make sure to check them out, I will also link all the videos that I mentioned here down in the description as well. Before we move on to the next profession though, I want to mention that lots of people transition to DevOps not only from software development background but also from systems administration or test automation or network engineering role and various other roles actually. I would say IT professions that are becoming less demanded or less interesting are moving towards DevOps engineering, because it is the new hot thing and if you don't already know about our famous DevOps bootcamp. Two years ago we actually created the complete educational program to teach people all the necessary tools and concepts to become a DevOps engineer. We have educated more than 2 500 students with this bootcamp so far, but as I said the DevOps bootcamp is for people with some level of IT experience or IT preknowledge. And that's why we created the IT Beginners mini bootcamp to help people with the zero background learn the fundamentals first they need to, to even get started into DevOps. So I created this course actually as a prerequisite for the DevOps Bootcamp. So if after watching the "DevOps as a career" videos you decide you want to get into DevOps, then these two educational programs will be the perfectly laid out path for you to get there in the most efficient easy and fast way. But if you decided DevOps sounds like it's definitely not for you, then you can consider one of the IT professions I'm going to talk about next in this video. So let's continue! The next IT field, which is actually pretty related to DevOps is cloud engineering. Very simply explained, a cloud engineer basically builds and maintains infrastructure in the cloud. As many companies move from managing their own infrastructure to using cloud platforms, Cloud Engineers are becoming increasingly demanded. Cloud engineering is also an entrylevel profession. If you have some basic systems administration experience, then this will be probably the easiest IT field to transition into, but if you're a complete IT beginner, you can actually start your IT journey directly here as well. So how do you start in cloud engineering? Well in cloud engineering, there are actually two most popular cloud platforms out there, which are Amazon's AWS and Microsoft's Azure. Both of them have various certifications, which you can take to help you get a job as a cloud engineer for that specific cloud platform. So if you want to get started in this, choose one of those cloud platforms and start learning for their basic entrylevel certifications and basically specialize in that cloud platform. I personally suggest choosing AWS, because it is currently the biggest and most used cloud platform. A good way to start here will be using AWS certification programs. AWS has multiple certifications from basic cloud practitioner to more advanced certifications. So obviously start with the basic AWS cloud practitioner certificate and start learning and preparing for that. This will give you knowledge in all important AWS services, but more importantly in the main concepts of cloud engineering in general. And remember I said, when you learn one programming language, learning another programming language actually becomes way easier because you already learned many of the common underlying concepts. The same way if you at some point decide to go for Azure after learning AWS or you find a dream job at a dream company, who uses Google Cloud platform instead, you can learn them way easier, because you already have learned one Cloud platform and the basics of cloud with that platform. In fact learning two cloud platforms will be a major asset, because you now have a good comparison between them. So the best starting point will be getting the cloud practitioner certificate from AWS to get you the first job in this field. Now I want to mention here that DevOps and Cloud often fall into the same category and often they get mixed up. However even though they have some overlaps, they are actually two very different fields and I plan to create a separate video for DevOps engineer versus Cloud engineer describing in detail what are the common tasks and responsibilities, those overlaps as well as what actually differentiates them. So you understand exactly the difference between these two fields. So be sure to subscribe and activate the notification bell, if you don't want to miss that. Now cloud, DevOps and software engineering fields have one thing in common, they all need security. When you build a cloud infrastructure you need to secure it, when you program an application you need to make sure it doesn't have any security loopholes that hackers may use to hack into your systems, when you build DevOps processes which actually affects your application, your cloud infrastructure and many different systems, again you have even more security responsibilities to make sure you don't expose passwords and secret keys to your systems etc. This means software developers, cloud engineers and DevOps engineers they all have to know about security. But security is an extremely large field and it affects every piece and step of the software development and release life cycle and you have security in other IT fields as well. So we actually have a separate dedicated profession for IT security engineers who specialize in all things security. As a security professional you know security tools and technologies that help you scan and identify security issues at different levels as well as help fix them and also validate that other engineers have secured their systems properly. There are even external security companies who provide services to other companies to secure their systems. For example they try to hack into their systems and see where the systems of the company are vulnerable, because if they can hack into them, actual hackers can also do that. So as a security engineer you identify those vulnerable points and advise the company how to secure them. Also security as I said is on multiple levels, every system, every software, that companies using or developing needs to be secured so the infrastructure, the application platform, the frontend, the backhand, database, the application itself. So security engineers usually have a wider cross knowledge of security on all those levels and can plan a general strategy of securing the complete setup using various technologies for automating security checks and security testing and so on. And it goes without saying that security engineers have extreme value to the companies, because security breach is the worst scenario for any big known company. Cyber attacks are becoming more and more sophisticated and for applications, who have millions or hundreds of millions of users and the user data obviously the impact of the attack is huge, when data of so many users is compromised or even think about your online banking application. Obviously you don't want them to have any security issues in their system, right? For this reason there is usually a tremendous demand for security engineers in many industries and it's definitely going to become even more important in the future. So if you want to go on this challenging but very exciting path you need to first understand the concepts of what you are securing. So this is also not really an entrylevel IT position, you definitely need some preknowledge in one of the IT fields like network engineering, cloud engineering, software development etc. And on top of that you'll have to learn many security concepts and tools in order to develop this general security strategies. When talking about security, passwords and secret data is a critical part, so before moving on I want to give a shout out to Passbolt who made this video possible. Passbolt is an open source password manager for agile and DevOps teams and is built for collaboration. With Passbolt you can securely generate, store, manage and monitor your team's credentials. The security model is built on strong foundations such as endtoend encryption, granular access rights, it is audited regularly by third party entities, but you can actually audit it yourself, because it's 100% open source, even the commercial version of it. And for maximum privacy you can deploy your own selfhosted Passbolt server within minutes from a Raspberry Pi to a high availability setup and then put it behind your firewall. And also important to note that Passbolt does not require an internet connection to be functional. So be sure to check them out, the link is in the video description. Now let's move on with the next career path. One of the hottest IT jobs, which are more in demand than ever are data related jobs. Now why is that? When we have software that millions and billions of people use daily, those users produce loads of data, right? Think about social media, the posts and media we create and upload every minute or every second. Think about search data generated when millions of people search daily, GPS data from Google Maps or other applications that track your location, when you buy groceries at the supermarket, when you buy stuff online. So basically the user behavior data. All of this is data that we humans produce daily through our digital footprint. But apart from this human generated data there is also massive amounts of device generated data, such as cars, IoT systems through sensors, production machines, robots, logistics data, shipment tracking. So even more data than humans generate is coming from these sources. With all this, the data has grown dramatically in the last years. In fact worlds 90% of the data was actually generated in the last two years. As some sources mentioned, we generate so much data, every single day that if it were written down in form of books and we could pile those books on top of each other, we would have enough to build a bridge to the moon and back. And because of the sheer volume of this data, we also call it "Big Data". So that's where the term comes from. Data has become a precious asset of any organization, because it helps them understand things better. Like make predictions, political campaigns are driven by data, like you have polls and online searches etc. Many companies use data to optimize their processes, to save time and money in those processes. However, just raw data has no value to the company. Imagine these are massive amounts of data in raw form, generated in different formats and from different sources. It's really difficult for humans to make sense of data in this form. It only has value once the data is processed, cleaned, analyzed and visualized. So it's easy to consume for us humans and big data related professionals are exactly the ones, who use tools to turn these massive amounts of data into usable and extremely valuable information for companies. And companies can then use these visualized data to make decisions, make future predictions, cost optimizations and so on. And there are various data related professions with different tasks and responsibilities such as data analysts, data scientists and data engineer. So let's see comparisons between them. "Data analyst" is basically the entrylevel profession if you want to get into this field and is the easiest to start with. As the name suggests, data analysts analyze and interpret data to extract meaningful information from it. So they need to basically make sense of the data, like identify any patterns. The main skills they need to have are knowledge of math and statistics and various tools that help them in data analytics and data visualization. But in addition to the technical skills, data analysts must actually have a good business and product understanding. So they analyze the data with the goal to make good decisions for the business and product development and then communicate those decisions to people, who actually need them like, product owners, business decision makers in the company. However, data analysts work with already processed and prepared data. So the raw data needs to be collected from multiple sources with different formats and be processed first to be usable for the data analysts. And this is something that "data engineers" do. Data engineers need knowledge of databases and programming to do their job and data engineers actually build something called "data pipelines" to collect, store and process the data. So you can start into data engineering by learning a programming language like Python and its data processing frameworks and libraries, learning databases and query language like SQL for example and big data specific frameworks like Apache Hadoop, which is a popular framework that allows you to store and work with massive amounts of data. And the third one I mentioned is a "data scientist", which is usually the highest paid profession among these three. Now interesting to mention that companies often use data analysts and data scientists job titles interchangeably. Now they are two different professions, but there are definitely some overlaps between those two. And one of the overlaps is that you need to have advanced math and statistics knowledge here as well. So generally contrary to the popular belief, you don't need any math or statistics knowledge for software development and definitely not for DevOps or cloud engineering, but in data science or data analytics you will be working with math and statistics a lot. This means if you want to get started in one of those fields, the first thing you need to learn is statistics and the programming languages for statistics like R or Python. However in addition to statistics, data scientists usually require more advanced technical skills than data analysts and that's where the main difference between those two professions lie. So data scientists are usually more experienced engineers, who can create advanced machine learning models for example and algorithms to make future predictions. Which leads us to the next and final hottest IT profession called a "Machine Learning Engineer", which actually is yet another big data related profession. We said that data analysts and data scientists use data to analyze trends and identify patterns and make some decisions and predictions based on the data. So data can be used by humans to make datadriven decisions, but data can also be used by machines by programs, so that clean processed data that data engineers prepare can be fed into machines, so they can learn from them and they can use them for different tasks. And that's where machine learning actually comes in. Now what is machine learning exactly and why do machines need data, what do they do with it? In software development we write programs and instruct them to do something. In machine learning, machines can perform a task without being explicitly programmed to do so. How do they do that? They learn how to perform that task from large amounts of data using algorithms, which are also called machine learning algorithms. So machine learning is about computers being able to think and act without being explicitly told or programmed to do so and there are two main parts of this process. First one is writing the machine learning algorithms so that machines can use them to learn and the second part is feeding large sets of processed data into those algorithms, so basically using the data to train the model. Again there are some overlaps between data scientists and machine learning engineers that you will encounter, they both need strong math and statistics skills to work with data, however, while data scientists focus on making sense of the data, visualizing and presenting it better, machine learning focuses on using the data for machines to learn to carry out certain tasks. So entry into machine learning engineering is actually pretty similar to data science. You need to start by learning a programming language like Python, which has powerful machine learning frameworks and statistics, which is a very important part of machine learning engineering. Now you probably already noticed that in all those fields I actually mentioned Python programming language and that's because Python is a general purpose language. You can use it in every single one of those areas, however that does not mean that you need the same Python knowledge in each field. Using Python for web development is completely different from using Python for DevOps automation or machine learning and that's an important difference. So first you learn the Python core with its syntax and general programming concepts and then you learn the specific libraries and frameworks for each IT field on top of that Python core. So you have completely different frameworks and libraries for web development and machine learning and DevOps automation, which you need to learn for that specific field. So you basically learn different parts of Python for each field and that's an important thing to differentiate. Python language just happens to have popular frameworks for all those fields and their use cases, but of course the Python core is the same everywhere and if you want to learn Python core, like syntax and programming concepts of Python, you can definitely check our free course on Python, which I will link right here. So we've covered a bunch of career options in IT and I tried to categorize them so you have a better overview and comparison between them. So hopefully something stood out for you where you think "well that field sounds pretty interesting to me so I'd like to get into that field". Now of course when you know approximately which direction you want to go and what you want to start learning, the next question becomes"where and how do you learn this?" Do you get a college degree in computer science? Do you take an online course? Do you join a data science bootcamp or a coding bootcamp or our DevOps bootcamp? Well, I personally started my informatics studies at a technical university, but I was using mostly online resources for my studies like YouTube videos and some coding websites. And as soon as I got an internship as a software developer in my second semester, I actually quit my studies and used my work to learn by doing, because at work I was actually learning way more practical stuff that I actually needed for my job than at the university. But learning at work wasn't always easy, so I continued learning new things from YouTube videos and blog articles and online courses. I was often all over the place trying to learn anything and everything that I stumbled upon. I didn't really have a roadmap that I could follow, but it was still useful in some way. So I still think that online resources are one of the best ways to learn, especially in IT field, but as I said having some kind of road map and structure definitely makes the learning journey easier, because you don't just learn things randomly, but you learn things in a certain order without being distracted by massive amounts of information. So whatever field you want to choose Go find a clear roadmap for that profession. There are various articles and videos about those roadmaps and then just try to follow that roadmap. And of course if you decide for DevOps, as I mentioned we have a complete roadmap for that, even if you're starting off without any IT background, so you don't need to do the research, put together a learning course and find good resources. We have done that whole work for you. You just follow along and learn by doing and if you know my videos I create the content with the goal of giving practical actual usable knowledge with easy explanations. I love helping people learn easily without getting frustrated and being overwhelmed. So generally as you see, you have various options, choose an entrylevel career based on what you want to do later and you can build on top of that. And again no knowledge is wasted in IT, everything is still interconnected, so if you start in software development and later want to do DevOps or machine learning or cloud engineering you can still benefit from that knowledge and won't be starting from scratch in that field. So if you don't know yet where you want to end up you can start with any one of those, maybe the easiest one and you can always progress in any other direction later. I hope I was able to help you make these important decision for your future, you definitely made the right decision by choosing IT in general. With that, all the best and see you in the next video! )
