With timestamps:

00:00 - You all know that devops is already very popular 
and highly demanded. You see organizations  
00:05 - adopting it worldwide and it seems like a great 
career choice with lots of job opportunities,  
00:10 - high salary and generally a very rewarding 
work, but maybe devops is not for everyone.  
00:16 - It takes a specific type of person to be 
interested in devops, so the question is:  
00:21 - "is devops profession right for you?" And in 
order to answer this question in this video I will  
00:27 - explain what are the qualities and characteristics 
you should have if you want to get into devops,  
00:33 - what kind of thinking and approach is required 
in devops with soft skills as well as technical  
00:39 - skills you need to have and finally what are 
some challenges of being a devops engineer.  
00:44 - And if at the end of the video you do find 
out and decide that devops is indeed for you,  
00:49 - I will also show what next steps you can take 
to get into devops. So let's get into it!
00:58 - First of all, you need to be a generalist 
rather than a specialist. What does that  
01:04 - mean? In devops you don't just learn one 
tool or one concept and then specialize in  
01:10 - it. Instead you need to master combining many 
tools. Some people love focusing on one area  
01:15 - of expertise and deepening their knowledge 
in it, like if you learn JavaScript you can  
01:20 - master it on an advanced level and become an 
expert JavaScript developer, but in devops  
01:25 - you can't just learn Docker or Terraform and 
become an expert Docker or Terraform engineer,  
01:31 - you need to have a tool set of various tools you 
combine in order to build devops processes. Even  
01:37 - as a junior devops engineer just knowing 
two or three tools won't help you here,  
01:42 - so you should like learning many different 
things and building a wide skill set.
01:49 - Because you need many tools you also need to 
develop a skill to compare, quickly assess and  
01:57 - decide on which tools and concepts you will use 
in your projects. Like "do we need GitOps or is  
02:03 - it just over engineering for our specific 
use case and project". "This tool is great,  
02:09 - but is it ready and mature enough to be used 
in this project?" "Should you use Terraform  
02:14 - or Pulumi ?" It's a strategic decision, right? 
Use Terraform which is an industry standard or  
02:20 - Pulumi which is more developer friendly and 
developer centric. And for those decisions  
02:24 - you need to be able to evaluate and test 
various tools, you also need to consider  
02:31 - many aspects and make efficient comparisons 
between different technologies to decide  
02:36 - which tools and concepts match to your specific 
use case and will work best for your project.
02:45 - In order to make those strategic decisions on 
which tools are best for your specific project  
02:51 - and use case, you need to have a good high level 
overview and end-to-end understanding of DevOps  
02:57 - processes. You need to understand which tool 
fits into which part of those processes and why  
03:03 - you're using them. You need to zoom out to see the 
connections between the tools and different roles  
03:09 - in your team, the bottlenecks, possible issues 
and improvement opportunities. So the scale of  
03:15 - high level thinking is one of the most important 
ones when you're getting into DevOps. For example,  
03:21 - when you're building a CI CD release pipeline you 
need to understand the whole software development  
03:26 - life cycle, you need to understand which roles 
it affects, what steps need to be combined in  
03:32 - which order, which systems are affected and who 
is responsible for what. Just like an architect,  
03:37 - who designs the whole house, considering the 
size of the lot, size of the house that needs  
03:43 - to be built, the surrounding space, inner space 
and all the aspects around it, making a master  
03:48 - plan for building the house. The same way you are 
architecting the DevOps processes on a high level.
03:57 - As I already mentioned, when you have a good high 
level overview, it's easier to identify issues,  
04:04 - bottlenecks that slow down the process or possible 
improvement opportunities in the DevOps processes,  
04:10 - like release pipeline, monitoring 
infrastructure management processes  
04:15 - etc. So when you see the whole DevOps process 
is one continuous line it's easier to see those.  
04:21 - Identifying issues is the first step in solving 
them and considering that many DevOps processes  
04:28 - are pretty complex, it may be challenging to 
see those issues and ways to optimize things,  
04:33 - so you need to be constantly observing and 
actively looking for ways to improve things  
04:38 - and fix the issues. For example if you identify 
that developers always need to manually perform  
04:44 - some tasks, which takes two hours or you notice 
that running tasks takes really long, so the CI  
04:52 - pipeline runs are very slow, you should actively 
look into it and see how how you can speed up or  
04:59 - automate things. Things can be optimized endlessly 
in DevOps. You don't just build a release pipeline  
05:05 - in two months and that's it. It's a continuous 
improvement process, just like you don't program  
05:10 - an application in two months and be done with it, 
you continue adding features and fixing bugs and  
05:17 - so on. It's the same with DevOps processes. 
This means as a DevOps engineer you need to  
05:22 - have a solution oriented approach, constantly 
looking for ways to optimize and solve things.  
05:29 - Now coming up with those solutions and improvement 
ideas will also require creativity and innovative  
05:36 - thinking. Why is this especially important in 
DevOps? Again because in DevOps the processes  
05:42 - are very complex and covers so many parts of 
the software development life cycle, things are  
05:48 - often not so straightforward. So for one specific 
task there may be 10 different ways of doing it,  
05:54 - so you need to combine things in a creative 
way to find solutions. This means most of the  
06:00 - time you need to be creative and think outside 
the box when deciding how to solve bottlenecks,  
06:06 - how to speed up DevOps processes, how to 
increase the quality of product delivery  
06:11 - etc. This also requires innovative thinking, 
because often the issues you have are very  
06:17 - individual for your project. So you need to have a 
fresh perspective and approach problems this way.  
06:23 - Often you can't just see how other companies solve 
the problems or how your company solved it in the  
06:29 - past, because it's a completely new and unique use 
case so you need to find a unique solution for it.
06:37 - When you make a plan and come up with solutions 
that affect many people, various roles in your  
06:43 - organization and many team members, of course 
those affected people should also be on board  
06:50 - with those solutions. You may get resistance 
from engineers or people may be opposed to making  
06:55 - changes to existing processes. So you need a skill 
to persuade people that your plans are really good  
07:02 - and will indeed help them in their work and have 
positive impact overall on the organization. So  
07:09 - as a DevOps engineer you will need to know how 
to communicate your ideas and planned changes,  
07:14 - get people on board and advocate for your ideas. 
So another super important skill you need in  
07:21 - DevOps is communication skills. Now let's see 
why this one's so crucial. In order to identify  
07:27 - the issues, bottlenecks, improvements 
and the respective solutions to those,  
07:32 - you often need input from various people 
and various roles in your organization  
07:37 - and good understanding of their work and their 
pain points. Once you have identified issues  
07:43 - and come up with solutions and persuaded the 
team to implement those, you need to also work  
07:50 - closely with engineers to actually implement 
that plan. So communication is the skill that  
07:56 - ties it all together. As a DevOps engineer you 
don't work alone. The whole DevOps concept is  
08:02 - based on the collaboration between different 
roles and team members and often these are the  
08:07 - roles that have different interests and tasks and 
sometimes even conflicting interests. So you need  
08:13 - to enjoy working with people and communicating 
with them since this is going to be one of the  
08:18 - major elements of your work as a DevOps engineer. 
So being a team player is definitely a must here.  
08:24 - As part of communication skills you also need 
to be able to effectively express your ideas  
08:30 - and explain your plans and strategies to the 
team members. So this also goes hand in hand  
08:36 - with the persuasion skills. Let's see why? As I 
already mentioned, your work affects many people,  
08:41 - you solve problems and bottlenecks for different 
roles, which means you need to get people to  
08:47 - work with you but also share your knowledge with 
them, explain new concepts and processes and so  
08:52 - on. DevOps engineers are also often the mediators 
between different roles. So you need to understand  
08:58 - and communicate efficiently with people, who have 
different interests, tasks and responsibilities.  
09:04 - For example let's say you are setting up a CI 
CD pipeline. CI/CD pipeline affects developer  
09:10 - workflow first of all. So developers need 
to be on board with what you're doing and  
09:15 - how you are designing their workflow, because 
they need to work with it. On the other hand,  
09:20 - you need input from them to understand what they 
need in order to work efficiently. So you can use  
09:26 - this input to implement the CI CD pipeline. 
CI/CD pipeline also affects test engineers,  
09:33 - system administrators, security professionals. 
So the same way you need need to understand what  
09:39 - these engineers need in order to do their part of 
the job and naturally all their interests need to  
09:45 - be aligned as well. So for example, if security 
needs to validate any security issues, test  
09:50 - engineers may write some automated tests to detect 
those security issues and this automated tests  
09:58 - will then be integrated into the pipeline or if a 
system administrator needs to enforce any policies  
10:04 - for developers before deploying the application 
changes to let's say a Kubernetes environment, you  
10:11 - can help them create those automated policy checks 
and then integrate them into the pipeline as well.  
10:17 - And if the development fails, help developers 
interpret those policies and comply with them.  
10:23 - So you see that as a DevOps engineer you are kind 
of in the middle of all those different roles,  
10:29 - connecting them and basically encouraging and 
enforcing this collaboration between different  
10:34 - team members. Before moving on I want to give a 
shout out to Pulumi who made this video possible.  
10:40 - Pulumi is a modern universal infrastructure 
as code tool which is gaining popularity.  
10:46 - With Pulumi you can use your familiar programming 
language tools and software engineering practices  
10:52 - to deploy and manage your cloud infrastructure 
on any cloud platform. By being able to use  
10:58 - standard languages practices and tools uniformly 
across infrastructure development and compliance  
11:05 - teams it brings them closer together to better 
deliver and manage modern cloud applications  
11:11 - for example you can deliver infrastructure 
and application code through a single CI CD  
11:16 - pipeline rather than separate pipelines for each 
one this streamlines versioning building testing  
11:24 - and deploying cloud applications if you want 
to learn more about Pulumi, I actually have  
11:29 - a separate video on it where you can see fully 
how it works in practice with that let's move on
11:37 - As a DevOps engineer you don't only create 
the high level design of the processes like  
11:43 - a solutions architect, but you also implement 
things like provisioning the infrastructure,  
11:49 - configuring servers, writing automation 
scripts, infrastructure is code or X as  
11:54 - code. So once the high level plan is in place, 
the next step is implementation. Now there are  
12:01 - differences across organizations on the role 
of a DevOps engineer and what its tasks and  
12:07 - responsibilities are. Originally DevOps was not 
even meant as a separate role, but rather as an  
12:13 - overlaying concept. So traditional roles 
like developers, system administrators  
12:18 - etc were supposed to take on those tasks that are 
now done by DevOps engineers, but in practice it  
12:26 - emerged as a separate role who designs the DevOps 
processes and also works hands-on to implement  
12:33 - those processes. So in order to implement 
things you need detail oriented thinking,  
12:38 - to consider and pay attention to various details 
and actually implement the things that you have  
12:45 - designed. So you need to be able to focus both 
on the big picture and small details or in other  
12:51 - words create a zoomed out map with an overview 
and then zoom in into specific spots on the map.  
12:57 - When needed you also need detail orientation 
when troubleshooting issues especially in  
13:02 - complex systems like Kubernetes clusters on cloud 
environments or in complex infrastructure setups
13:11 - Now let's say you design the processes and 
workflows, you implement things and so on.  
13:17 - Since these workflows affect other engineers 
they need to know how these processes work.  
13:23 - When you create a CI/CD pipeline, developers 
need to know how to use it and how to develop,  
13:29 - what to do and what not to do. So that their code 
changes actually get released by that pipeline.  
13:36 - Or let's say you have implemented infrastructure 
as code concept in your organization. When a new  
13:41 - systems administrator or cloud engineer joins 
the team, they need to know how the process  
13:47 - of creating and configuring infrastructure works. 
So documenting things and making them transparent  
13:53 - for others in your organization is extremely 
important in DevOps. The processes should be  
13:58 - transparent for everyone. This will make work 
and collaboration of engineers much easier,  
14:03 - but also make onboarding new engineers way easier 
as well. This means you need to be an organized  
14:10 - person, who document things in an organized 
and structured way. This could be textual  
14:15 - documentation or also graphics and diagrams for 
let's say visualizing architecture, workflows and  
14:23 - different processes in your organization. Making 
things transparent, sharing knowledge, making sure  
14:29 - everyone has access to the information they need. 
Now apart from personal characteristics you should  
14:35 - also have personal preferences for things that are 
essential for the DevOps daily work. First of all,  
14:42 - you should love dynamic, diverse work with 
a wide range of tasks, because as I said you  
14:48 - don't just work on one tool but rather your 
tasks may range from coding to configuring  
14:54 - infrastructure to monitoring, scripting and so 
on. This will also mean doing things outside  
15:00 - your comfort zone instead of doing comfortable 
work, like only doing the tasks in your areas  
15:06 - of expertise. In DevOps you keep pushing out of 
your comfort zone, constantly working with new  
15:12 - tools you don't know. So you should not be 
just open to changes, but love the changes  
15:17 - and actively drive changes and improvements in 
your organization. This also means being on the  
15:23 - edge of the technological changes and industry 
trends, being the front of your organization  
15:29 - that keeps an eye and observes industry changes 
and trends and improvements to implement them and  
15:35 - bring them into your organization. Another 
personal preference that's super important  
15:40 - is that you enjoy identifying optimization 
opportunities in the existing processes. And  
15:46 - I think this is a very important one. For example 
you should have fun and enjoy solving bottleneck,  
15:52 - spitting up things, automating things and seeing 
the progress from slow manual tedious work to  
15:59 - smooth streamlined automated processes. Now as 
you're probably already thinking DevOps is quite  
16:06 - a challenging job. It is definitely exciting and 
rewarding, but it comes with some challenges,  
16:12 - which you may also want to consider when deciding 
whether DevOps is really for you. First of all,  
16:18 - constantly learning new technologies and 
concepts could be overwhelming for many  
16:23 - people. The responsibility and the challenge in 
working with people, who may be opposed to your  
16:29 - ideas and suggestions or generally resistant to 
changes can be very difficult as well. And since  
16:36 - you need to communicate with various teams in the 
organization, it can be frustrating if they don't  
16:42 - cooperate. Another common challenge is that often 
there are unclear requirements about DevOps in  
16:49 - the companies themselves, because some companies 
don't know exactly what DevOps is and where the  
16:54 - responsibilities of DevOps actually lie. So you 
may get pushed into some role or in doing tasks,  
17:00 - which are not really part of the DevOps area. 
Now this may change in the future when DevOps  
17:06 - processes become more standardized and DevOps role 
becomes more standardized as well, but currently  
17:12 - this is a common issue across organizations. 
Something that may also bother some people is  
17:18 - that most tasks are not visual, but rather in the 
background, not directly visible by the end users  
17:25 - or even the team members. Sometimes the fact 
that you don't even notice a DevOps process  
17:31 - may in some cases be exactly the purpose of the 
DevOps task. Like removing the bottleneck so the  
17:37 - processes become more streamlined and smooth and 
generally when working with people, you need to be  
17:44 - a person who is able to cope with that resistance 
and be empathetic and don't get frustrated so  
17:51 - easily. So overall being a DevOps engineer is 
a bit challenging, but extremely interesting as  
17:57 - well especially for people who love to learn 
and are always ready to tackle complicated  
18:02 - issues. Now apart from the personal qualities 
and preferences, there are some hard facts that  
18:08 - may be very important and influence your decision 
on whether you want to become a DevOps engineer.  
18:13 - Something that speaks very strongly for choosing 
this career is that DevOps is currently one of the  
18:21 - most demanded professions in the IT field and is 
probably going to become even more demanded in the  
18:26 - next years as DevOps adoption keeps growing. So 
if you're someone who takes the market demand into  
18:33 - account, then this will be an important factor 
in the decision. If after watching this video  
18:39 - you think that DevOps is indeed right for you, 
then check out my other video from Zero to DevOps  
18:46 - engineer, where you see how you can transition to 
DevOps with your specific background. Whether you  
18:53 - are a systems engineer, software developer, test 
engineer or a complete IT newbie. So be sure to  
18:59 - check that one out. And if you actually decide 
to get into DevOps and become a DevOps engineer  
19:05 - and want to commit to learning it, then you 
should definitely check out our six month  
19:09 - DevOps bootcamp, where you learn all the tools 
and concepts you need to become a DevOps engineer  
19:15 - in a structured step-by-step way. With that, thank 
you for watching and see you in the next video! :)

Cleaned transcript:

You all know that devops is already very popular and highly demanded. You see organizations adopting it worldwide and it seems like a great career choice with lots of job opportunities, high salary and generally a very rewarding work, but maybe devops is not for everyone. It takes a specific type of person to be interested in devops, so the question is "is devops profession right for you?" And in order to answer this question in this video I will explain what are the qualities and characteristics you should have if you want to get into devops, what kind of thinking and approach is required in devops with soft skills as well as technical skills you need to have and finally what are some challenges of being a devops engineer. And if at the end of the video you do find out and decide that devops is indeed for you, I will also show what next steps you can take to get into devops. So let's get into it! First of all, you need to be a generalist rather than a specialist. What does that mean? In devops you don't just learn one tool or one concept and then specialize in it. Instead you need to master combining many tools. Some people love focusing on one area of expertise and deepening their knowledge in it, like if you learn JavaScript you can master it on an advanced level and become an expert JavaScript developer, but in devops you can't just learn Docker or Terraform and become an expert Docker or Terraform engineer, you need to have a tool set of various tools you combine in order to build devops processes. Even as a junior devops engineer just knowing two or three tools won't help you here, so you should like learning many different things and building a wide skill set. Because you need many tools you also need to develop a skill to compare, quickly assess and decide on which tools and concepts you will use in your projects. Like "do we need GitOps or is it just over engineering for our specific use case and project". "This tool is great, but is it ready and mature enough to be used in this project?" "Should you use Terraform or Pulumi ?" It's a strategic decision, right? Use Terraform which is an industry standard or Pulumi which is more developer friendly and developer centric. And for those decisions you need to be able to evaluate and test various tools, you also need to consider many aspects and make efficient comparisons between different technologies to decide which tools and concepts match to your specific use case and will work best for your project. In order to make those strategic decisions on which tools are best for your specific project and use case, you need to have a good high level overview and endtoend understanding of DevOps processes. You need to understand which tool fits into which part of those processes and why you're using them. You need to zoom out to see the connections between the tools and different roles in your team, the bottlenecks, possible issues and improvement opportunities. So the scale of high level thinking is one of the most important ones when you're getting into DevOps. For example, when you're building a CI CD release pipeline you need to understand the whole software development life cycle, you need to understand which roles it affects, what steps need to be combined in which order, which systems are affected and who is responsible for what. Just like an architect, who designs the whole house, considering the size of the lot, size of the house that needs to be built, the surrounding space, inner space and all the aspects around it, making a master plan for building the house. The same way you are architecting the DevOps processes on a high level. As I already mentioned, when you have a good high level overview, it's easier to identify issues, bottlenecks that slow down the process or possible improvement opportunities in the DevOps processes, like release pipeline, monitoring infrastructure management processes etc. So when you see the whole DevOps process is one continuous line it's easier to see those. Identifying issues is the first step in solving them and considering that many DevOps processes are pretty complex, it may be challenging to see those issues and ways to optimize things, so you need to be constantly observing and actively looking for ways to improve things and fix the issues. For example if you identify that developers always need to manually perform some tasks, which takes two hours or you notice that running tasks takes really long, so the CI pipeline runs are very slow, you should actively look into it and see how how you can speed up or automate things. Things can be optimized endlessly in DevOps. You don't just build a release pipeline in two months and that's it. It's a continuous improvement process, just like you don't program an application in two months and be done with it, you continue adding features and fixing bugs and so on. It's the same with DevOps processes. This means as a DevOps engineer you need to have a solution oriented approach, constantly looking for ways to optimize and solve things. Now coming up with those solutions and improvement ideas will also require creativity and innovative thinking. Why is this especially important in DevOps? Again because in DevOps the processes are very complex and covers so many parts of the software development life cycle, things are often not so straightforward. So for one specific task there may be 10 different ways of doing it, so you need to combine things in a creative way to find solutions. This means most of the time you need to be creative and think outside the box when deciding how to solve bottlenecks, how to speed up DevOps processes, how to increase the quality of product delivery etc. This also requires innovative thinking, because often the issues you have are very individual for your project. So you need to have a fresh perspective and approach problems this way. Often you can't just see how other companies solve the problems or how your company solved it in the past, because it's a completely new and unique use case so you need to find a unique solution for it. When you make a plan and come up with solutions that affect many people, various roles in your organization and many team members, of course those affected people should also be on board with those solutions. You may get resistance from engineers or people may be opposed to making changes to existing processes. So you need a skill to persuade people that your plans are really good and will indeed help them in their work and have positive impact overall on the organization. So as a DevOps engineer you will need to know how to communicate your ideas and planned changes, get people on board and advocate for your ideas. So another super important skill you need in DevOps is communication skills. Now let's see why this one's so crucial. In order to identify the issues, bottlenecks, improvements and the respective solutions to those, you often need input from various people and various roles in your organization and good understanding of their work and their pain points. Once you have identified issues and come up with solutions and persuaded the team to implement those, you need to also work closely with engineers to actually implement that plan. So communication is the skill that ties it all together. As a DevOps engineer you don't work alone. The whole DevOps concept is based on the collaboration between different roles and team members and often these are the roles that have different interests and tasks and sometimes even conflicting interests. So you need to enjoy working with people and communicating with them since this is going to be one of the major elements of your work as a DevOps engineer. So being a team player is definitely a must here. As part of communication skills you also need to be able to effectively express your ideas and explain your plans and strategies to the team members. So this also goes hand in hand with the persuasion skills. Let's see why? As I already mentioned, your work affects many people, you solve problems and bottlenecks for different roles, which means you need to get people to work with you but also share your knowledge with them, explain new concepts and processes and so on. DevOps engineers are also often the mediators between different roles. So you need to understand and communicate efficiently with people, who have different interests, tasks and responsibilities. For example let's say you are setting up a CI CD pipeline. CI/CD pipeline affects developer workflow first of all. So developers need to be on board with what you're doing and how you are designing their workflow, because they need to work with it. On the other hand, you need input from them to understand what they need in order to work efficiently. So you can use this input to implement the CI CD pipeline. CI/CD pipeline also affects test engineers, system administrators, security professionals. So the same way you need need to understand what these engineers need in order to do their part of the job and naturally all their interests need to be aligned as well. So for example, if security needs to validate any security issues, test engineers may write some automated tests to detect those security issues and this automated tests will then be integrated into the pipeline or if a system administrator needs to enforce any policies for developers before deploying the application changes to let's say a Kubernetes environment, you can help them create those automated policy checks and then integrate them into the pipeline as well. And if the development fails, help developers interpret those policies and comply with them. So you see that as a DevOps engineer you are kind of in the middle of all those different roles, connecting them and basically encouraging and enforcing this collaboration between different team members. Before moving on I want to give a shout out to Pulumi who made this video possible. Pulumi is a modern universal infrastructure as code tool which is gaining popularity. With Pulumi you can use your familiar programming language tools and software engineering practices to deploy and manage your cloud infrastructure on any cloud platform. By being able to use standard languages practices and tools uniformly across infrastructure development and compliance teams it brings them closer together to better deliver and manage modern cloud applications for example you can deliver infrastructure and application code through a single CI CD pipeline rather than separate pipelines for each one this streamlines versioning building testing and deploying cloud applications if you want to learn more about Pulumi, I actually have a separate video on it where you can see fully how it works in practice with that let's move on As a DevOps engineer you don't only create the high level design of the processes like a solutions architect, but you also implement things like provisioning the infrastructure, configuring servers, writing automation scripts, infrastructure is code or X as code. So once the high level plan is in place, the next step is implementation. Now there are differences across organizations on the role of a DevOps engineer and what its tasks and responsibilities are. Originally DevOps was not even meant as a separate role, but rather as an overlaying concept. So traditional roles like developers, system administrators etc were supposed to take on those tasks that are now done by DevOps engineers, but in practice it emerged as a separate role who designs the DevOps processes and also works handson to implement those processes. So in order to implement things you need detail oriented thinking, to consider and pay attention to various details and actually implement the things that you have designed. So you need to be able to focus both on the big picture and small details or in other words create a zoomed out map with an overview and then zoom in into specific spots on the map. When needed you also need detail orientation when troubleshooting issues especially in complex systems like Kubernetes clusters on cloud environments or in complex infrastructure setups Now let's say you design the processes and workflows, you implement things and so on. Since these workflows affect other engineers they need to know how these processes work. When you create a CI/CD pipeline, developers need to know how to use it and how to develop, what to do and what not to do. So that their code changes actually get released by that pipeline. Or let's say you have implemented infrastructure as code concept in your organization. When a new systems administrator or cloud engineer joins the team, they need to know how the process of creating and configuring infrastructure works. So documenting things and making them transparent for others in your organization is extremely important in DevOps. The processes should be transparent for everyone. This will make work and collaboration of engineers much easier, but also make onboarding new engineers way easier as well. This means you need to be an organized person, who document things in an organized and structured way. This could be textual documentation or also graphics and diagrams for let's say visualizing architecture, workflows and different processes in your organization. Making things transparent, sharing knowledge, making sure everyone has access to the information they need. Now apart from personal characteristics you should also have personal preferences for things that are essential for the DevOps daily work. First of all, you should love dynamic, diverse work with a wide range of tasks, because as I said you don't just work on one tool but rather your tasks may range from coding to configuring infrastructure to monitoring, scripting and so on. This will also mean doing things outside your comfort zone instead of doing comfortable work, like only doing the tasks in your areas of expertise. In DevOps you keep pushing out of your comfort zone, constantly working with new tools you don't know. So you should not be just open to changes, but love the changes and actively drive changes and improvements in your organization. This also means being on the edge of the technological changes and industry trends, being the front of your organization that keeps an eye and observes industry changes and trends and improvements to implement them and bring them into your organization. Another personal preference that's super important is that you enjoy identifying optimization opportunities in the existing processes. And I think this is a very important one. For example you should have fun and enjoy solving bottleneck, spitting up things, automating things and seeing the progress from slow manual tedious work to smooth streamlined automated processes. Now as you're probably already thinking DevOps is quite a challenging job. It is definitely exciting and rewarding, but it comes with some challenges, which you may also want to consider when deciding whether DevOps is really for you. First of all, constantly learning new technologies and concepts could be overwhelming for many people. The responsibility and the challenge in working with people, who may be opposed to your ideas and suggestions or generally resistant to changes can be very difficult as well. And since you need to communicate with various teams in the organization, it can be frustrating if they don't cooperate. Another common challenge is that often there are unclear requirements about DevOps in the companies themselves, because some companies don't know exactly what DevOps is and where the responsibilities of DevOps actually lie. So you may get pushed into some role or in doing tasks, which are not really part of the DevOps area. Now this may change in the future when DevOps processes become more standardized and DevOps role becomes more standardized as well, but currently this is a common issue across organizations. Something that may also bother some people is that most tasks are not visual, but rather in the background, not directly visible by the end users or even the team members. Sometimes the fact that you don't even notice a DevOps process may in some cases be exactly the purpose of the DevOps task. Like removing the bottleneck so the processes become more streamlined and smooth and generally when working with people, you need to be a person who is able to cope with that resistance and be empathetic and don't get frustrated so easily. So overall being a DevOps engineer is a bit challenging, but extremely interesting as well especially for people who love to learn and are always ready to tackle complicated issues. Now apart from the personal qualities and preferences, there are some hard facts that may be very important and influence your decision on whether you want to become a DevOps engineer. Something that speaks very strongly for choosing this career is that DevOps is currently one of the most demanded professions in the IT field and is probably going to become even more demanded in the next years as DevOps adoption keeps growing. So if you're someone who takes the market demand into account, then this will be an important factor in the decision. If after watching this video you think that DevOps is indeed right for you, then check out my other video from Zero to DevOps engineer, where you see how you can transition to DevOps with your specific background. Whether you are a systems engineer, software developer, test engineer or a complete IT newbie. So be sure to check that one out. And if you actually decide to get into DevOps and become a DevOps engineer and want to commit to learning it, then you should definitely check out our six month DevOps bootcamp, where you learn all the tools and concepts you need to become a DevOps engineer in a structured stepbystep way. With that, thank you for watching and see you in the next video! )
