hello YouTube Sam here from youtube.com/ onli gamer for the New Boston and in this tutorial we're going to be continuing creating our calculator now if you don't know what I'm talking about then you may want to move back a couple couple tutorials and catch up to what we're doing now you can see here that we added the two numbers num one and num two by using our ad function that we created and we just converted the text from those text boxes to a double now what we want to do is we want to put answer in the answer box so we're going to do this by typing text answer. text equals answer and then we'll just leave it like that we're not going to convert it to a string because we may use that answer later on so let's go ahead and run our program and see what happens so we got first number let do 23 number 45 and we add them we get 68 now what if the user forgot to enter a value in for one of the boxes well what we're going to do is we're going to enclose all of this in an if statement so we're going to go ahead and type if text num one. text. length equals 0 or does not equal Z and text num two do uh. text. length does not equal zero either then go ahead and do this so we'll just add an end if right here and we're going to we're going to add an else statement so else and so if one of the boxes is empty if the length does equal zero on one of the boxes then we're going to go ahead and type messagebox Dosh show please fill all fields and then we'll just set the title to error and we'll type message boox buttons. okay and we will set the icon just to a warning because an error didn't really happen so message box icon messagebox icons. warning okay message boox icon. warning not icons and now let's go ahead and run this and see what happens if they leave a field empty so here's first first number so if we type this in we click add it says please fill all fields and you can see it gives them the warning icon and then if we fill this with something and click add it will give us an answer let's go ahe and close this out now what if the user wants to continue adding numbers to the answer so what we're going to do is after we set text answer. text equal to answer we will just type text num 2. readon equals true so what this does is we can access the properties of text num one while we're programming and change them on the fly so it sets read only equal to true now if we run this you can see that if we type some numbers in here and click add it'll set this one equal to read only now we need to do text text num two not text num one so let's just do that one more time so you can see that it sets it to read only and we can't do anything to it so before we set it to read only we're going to have to clear it so textum 2. CLE so this will let them keep adding numbers to the answer and what we need to do because we're allowing them to do this we need to add a clear button so we'll just come over here to our toolbox We'll add a button down here and we will set the name to button clear so we'll come up here and change it to button clear and then we will set the text to clear now if we go ahead and dble double click on this it opens up the event for this and what we want to do is when they click clear then we'll just set text num 2 do read only equals false so that they can read from it and we'll just clear each one of those text boxes all right let's just do text answer. clear and text num 2. CLE so now we run this you can see we have first number and second number and if we type some values in and add them you can see that it gives us the option to press clear and when we do it resets it now let's come up here and instead of setting this instead of clearing texum to we'll just leave it to the same to see what they added but it will not continually um add numbers to the it it won't continue continually add first number and second number to the answer now we'll be covering this in the next tutorial so um look at this code you can modify it if you want play around with it test see what you can do with it and uh once you know what it does go ahead and move on to the next tutorial and thanks for watching