hello YouTube Sam here from youtube.com/ onli gamer for the New Boston and in this tutorial we're going to be looking more at properties and we're going to be finishing our application that we created in the last couple tutorials now if you're unfamiliar with what you see on the screen right now uh then you might want to move back a couple tutorials probably to the um enumerations video that's where we get started on making this application so um if not then let's go ahead and get started so if you remember last time we created this property and what we did was we got the current hour that is stored in this date time picker now the hour is an integer because our property is an integer um we don't have to specify the data type in here because we already did it up in the top now we have a set function and in the arguments we have to give it a value and what this does is it sets the value of date time pick or hour to the value that the user passed so it sets the year month and day all according to the current machine that it's on then it sets the hour to whatever the use the developer passes to the to this function and then it sets the minutes and the seconds to zero so now let's go ahead and what we want to do is we want to change this text label um based on what the person is doing so before we get started doing that we need to go ahead and create two events double click on your form one and double click on dtp hour so we're going to get private sub dtp hour value changed and we're going to get form one load so when the form one loads we want to set our datetime picker to the current time that uh the program is running so what we'll do is we'll just go ahead and type me. our so what this is going to do is we're using the Mi keyword which is referring to this class right here and now in this class we have a property called hour so when we call me. hour it refers to this hour right here so me. hour equals now do hour so what this is going to do is it's going to set our hour property to the current time by using now. hour to get what the current time is so it'll update the datetime Picker so now what we want to do is whenever the user changes a value in the datetime Picker we want to go ahead and update our hour so this is very simple as well so we'll use the Mi keyword to refer to this class and hour now if you're a little conf confused on the Mi keyword I'm going to have a whole another tutorial covering the Mi keyword uh more in depth and now if you're coming from a different language the Mi keyword would be equivalent to the this keyword so we'll type me. our equals dtp hour. value. hour so it's going to get whatever they put in and it's going to update our hour property so now what we need to do is we need to set this label based on what the user has picked so what we're going to do is we're going to come down here and we'll type label state. text equals at and now we'll just go ahead and add the value or the hour so at Value and then we're just going to add 0 0 because the value is a single integer um ranging from 1 to 12 so at 100 to 1200 either a.m. or p.m. um we'll just go ahead and type we'll just use the name Richard is and then so what this is going to do is going to say at and then the hour that they selected Richard is and it's going to we're going to leave this blank right now and we're going to create uh a whole another thing that will determine what Richard is doing so you can have as many things as you want inside of a set uh a set block inside of your property hour so if we go ahead and run this you can see that it sets the current time and um the current time on my computer right now you can't see it but it is 614 and because we use the current hour and then set the minutes and the seconds to zero automatic I mean um by inputting it oursel it's going to get the hour from the machine and then do whatever we tell it to for this and it says at 1800 Richard is so this uses um military time so we change this to five and press enter okay sorry about that I had a little trouble there but so if we put 400 in here it'll say at 16 Richard is and if we type let's say 600 p.m. or let's change it to a.m. so at 600 a.m. Richard is so basically what we did is we created this property and the property value the property itself is set to the hour so if we did a messagebox show and put hour it would give us the integer of the current hour and then we use the set um to change the date and time of the datetime Picker so we set it to we created a new date and we set it to the now. year now. Monon now. day and then the current value and then we just set the label state to at and then the current um hour which is in military time Richard is and it doesn't display anything yet and then when the when the form loads we just set the hour property to the current hour and then when they change the date time picker hour we set me. hour equal to uh date time picker hour. value. hour now when we when we set me. hour and use equals what this is going to do is it's going to call set for us so that calls set and value right here is equal to whatever we put after the equals so we pretty much did me. hour and when we press when we type equals it calls set and the buy Val that is in here is going to be equal to this value right here so um go ahead and put this code in if you haven't already um if you don't understand it you can go ahead and leave a comment I'll try to answer any questions that I can um so thanks for watching and stay tuned for the next tutorial