hello YouTube Sam here from youtube.com/ onli gamer for the New Boston and in this tutorial we're going to be covering events now you've seen events before such as the button click event that we use in most of that we've used in most of the tutorials before this now I'm going to break that down a little bit and explain it to you and we're going to take a look at some other events that we can use now let's go ahead and create a new project we will select Windows forms application and we will set the name to events and just go ahead and click okay now we'll wait for that to load okay so now we're going to go ahead and head over to our toolbox and we will select a button and place it on our form now we'll go ahead and resize the form sum here and we'll make the button a little bit bigger so we'll just go ahead and leave the text value the same because that's going to be changing pretty soon and we'll change the name to button events now if you go ahead and double click button one you can see here that it creates this sub and it's called button events unor click and you can see it takes two arguments we've got by Val sender as system.object and the sender is our button the button is an object and E it says byal e as system. event ARS e is the event args that is um being sent so if we go ahead and come over to our solution Explorer you can see a button right here called show all files now if we go ahead and click that you can see that a lot more files show up under our events solution so we can go ahead and click this Arrow under form 1vb you can see here that we have this one file called form1 des. designer. VB now this is where Visual Basic generates all your code that creates your form this right here so when you drag and J drop items onto your form it creates them in this designer file now you can see here that here's our button and what this basically does is it sets the location it sets the name of it the size and everything that it needs to know to add the button in the right place and um change and have the text value and all that other stuff now if we keep scrolling down you can see that here is our event it's called friend with events button events as system. windows. forums. button so this is where the event is and it's coming from button events now whenever you add an event it's going to go ahead and generate it in this file so if we come over here to the design we can go ahead and take a look at our properties right here and if we click the click the lightning bolt you can see that it opens up all these events that we can use now let's go ahead and look at Mouse hover so we'll go ahead and double click Mouse hover and you can see it creates another sub for us in form 1vb now you can see that the mouse hover has two arguments right here which is the sender and it's going to be the same as the button events clicked because it's the same button but our system. event arcs is going to be different so we can go ahead and just take a look at what this will do so if they Mouse hover then we're going to go ahead and type button events. text equals text changed so so whenever they hover their Mouse over there it's going to say text changed now let's come up here and we'll add something under button events click we'll type message boox doow sender. twring and we'll type messagebox doow e.2 string so whenever we click on this it's going to show us what sender is and what e is so let's go ahead and run this program and take a look at what happens so you can see we have button one and you can see if I hover the mouse over it says text changed and it won't change back because we would have to create another event for the mouse leaving this button now if we go ahead and click on text change you can see we get the message box for the sender and our sender is system. windows. forms. button which is the button is an button object and the text of it is text change we'll just go ahead and click okay and you can see that e our event args is system. windows. forms. mouseevent args so now what we can do is show you the E for Mouse hover so we'll type messagebox doow e.2 string so let's go ahead and run this and you can see when we hover the mouse over it shows us system. event args so go ahead and add some objects to your form in the the designer and go ahead and click the lightning bolt and take a look at some of the events that you can make play around with those and um once you get familiar with some of the most common events then uh go ahead and move on to the next tutorial and you can see we've got the form one. designer here uh I would suggest that you don't modify this cuz it could screw up your program sorry about that I got interrupted there so um what I was saying is don't modify this form one. designer. VB you can look at it to kind of see how the program works and learn from it but don't modify it if you don't know what you're doing so thanks for watching guys and stay tuned for the next tutorial