hello YouTube Sam here from youtube.com/ onli gamer for the New Boston and in this tutorial we're going to continue working on our favorites viewer application so before we get started I just want to give full credit to the authors of beginning Microsoft Visual Basic 2008 um the authors are thean Willis and Brian Newsome now they've made made this great app um I I've only found one error in it so far um but I'm going to be using it to teach you guys um some Visual Basic Concepts so if you don't know where we are right now then you may want to move back to one of the earlier tutorials so if you remember from the previous tutorial we added this if statement so if the file ends with URL then we want to try and get that um and use it as a favorite so we can use a tri uh TR catch statement and we we'll just enclose it in this in case um any errors happen so since the web favorites class right here implements I disposable we can use the using keyword so using object web favorite which is the name that we just created uh for the web favorite object as new web favorite so we're creating an object of the class web favorite which just um gets the favorite the fa favorite um URL and the name so that we can use it later on and that's the purpose of this class to get the name and the URL of a certain file so with this object what we want to do is we want to load the file information so we'll type object web favorite. load and we're going to use string file so string file is the let's see here the file that is in the directory that we're currently in which is the um favorites directory and it's the file that ends with URL so object web favorite. load so you can see here we've got web favorite. load and what this does is it gets the text um from that file and it store and it extracts the URL and the name so it's going to load that file and then we're just going to add that to the collection of favorites so favorites collection. add and then we we will add object web favorite so you can see here favorites collection is initialized to a new web favorite collection up here and the add method will go up and look at that it's just going to add uh the web favorite object to our list and we're passing object web favorite to it and so here is our end using and if we catch an exception let's just go ahead and let them know so we'll type messagebox Dosh show ex. message okay so for the time being we're done with creating and editing our classes so let's go ahead and let's find viewer. VB so we'll double click on the form itself to open up the load event for it so whenever our favorites viewer loads what do we want to do well we want to get all of our favorites and load them into the list so we'll just close this in a try catch statement in case anything goes wrong so we're going to be using object favorites as new favorites now the reason we're using using is because once we've added all this stuff to the list there's no reason for us to keep this object and the object favorites or the favorites class implements I disposable so we can use the using keyword so while we're using object favorites what we want to do is scan favorites so object favorites. scan favorites so we're using the version of this method that doesn't take any arguments so whenever we call Scan favorites it's going to scan favorites and it's going it's just going to scan our default favorites folder so we'll go ahead and come back in here and after we've scanned the favorites um and what this will do is it'll add the favorite to our collection so for each um it's going to add uh each of the favorites to our collection whenever we scan the favorites so now what we need to do is we need to go through each of the web favorite objects um in the favorites collection so we can do this by using a for each Loop so for each object web favorite as web favorite in object favorites. favorites collection now this might be a little confusing so I'll go ahead and explain it so we're creating an object of type webs fa web favorites and it's going to be inside of object favorites. favorites collection so here's object favorites and you can see here um that we have favorites collection which is of type web favorite collection so favorites has a collection that we can use um to store each one of the favorites so we're going to go through each of those favorites inside of this collection and what do we want to do with those favorites well we want to add them to our list so before we can do that we need to declare object list view item as new list view item now you can see that it says represent an item in a system. windows. forms. list view control so it's just going to be an item that goes um under one of these columns so now that we've created an object of the item let's go ahead and we need to set the properties of it so it we'll type object list view item. text is going to be equal to object web favorite. name so we have object web favorite right here um and it's it'll go through each of these object web favorites in our collection so it's going to get the name of that so the name is going to be the name of the file um which is let's see right here name and it just uses this substring to get the name of the file and leave out the stuff that we don't need so now what we need to do is we need to set um some other values so object list view items do SUB items. add and we'll add object list view item or not that sorry about that we want to add object web favorite. URL now because this URL column right here is a sub item of our list view we're going to use object list VI items. sub items. add and we're going to add the URL so after we've created this list view item we're just going to have to add it to the list so we'll type list or list favorites. items. add and we want to add this list view item so we'll just type object list view item and we'll close that off right there and now if there's an exception we just want to show that