foreign in this class we are going to see slicing a list this is the way to access a part of a list so we will be using the index numbers in range the syntax is as follows a list and then in the square bracket we will mention start the stop colon and step start and stop both are the index numbers step is an integer that how many step it needs to go so when we are mentioning start the index number that is included which is mentioned for example if I say file 5 is included but the stop mentioned number is not included it will be stopping before it for example again if I say 5 it will stop at 4 it will not consider 5. the step value is always integer as we are having left to right and right to left both index numbers it can also be negative 1. by default remember it is plus 1. not minus 1. let us have some examples here is a list called num ch num c h of 2 is to 5. here one more thing I wanted to tell you step is optional for you when we are not giving steps that is only plus 1 as default so when we are having plus 1 doesn't need to mention it so here it means Plus 1. so 2 to 5. so let us have the index numbers first for this now 2 is 10 there 5 is not included so it will stop at four so here 2 3 4 are the range which is been sliced from the list here it is from left to right so this will be the output next num CH of minus 3 is to minus 8 is to minus 1. see there step value it is given minus 1 let us also know the index value from right to left so minus 3 is OC there then minus 8 is the first one which is e b e b is not included as minus it is not included so it will stop at IB itself step is minus 1 it is clear so that it will be traversing from right to left so the output for this will be OC 25 a b 10 IB next we are having num CH of minus 6 is to 6. so minus 6 is 10 there and then 6 is given see there sometimes it can also be mixed with minus and plus both so minus 6 is 10 6 is 55 so it should be from left to right step value is plus 1 here so IB 10 a b 25 OC will be taken 6 is not included need to remember this output will be this one so this is just to understand we will have a number of examples so that it will be more clear for you executing in the python let me have language I give Lang pi Java C plus plus basic VB Pearl so these are the values which I have let me slice now lying off that is open the square bracket and give 2 is to 5. so here 2 is C right 0 this is 1 this is 2. so 3 4 it will take 5 is not included so C C plus plus basic should be the result if this step is plus one so here as it is not mentioned step is plus one you should be very careful about this so this is the right answer now Lang of minus 2 is to minus 6 in the reverse order minus 1 it is so this is minus 1 this is minus 2. so from minus 2 it will take minus 3 minus 4 minus 5 minus 6. so minus 6 is Java there is not included so it will stop at C itself the order is from right to left so we will be getting VB basic C plus plus and C now Lang of is to three see there I have not mentioned the start but I gave the stop in this case it is always taken as 0. so that means it starts from that first element itself so up to 3 3 is not included so it will stop at 2 so Pi Java and c will be taken let me give Lang of 3 is to nothing I give so the staff is not even it means it will take until the end C plus plus is having the index number 3 so from here it will go to the end we could see that now I have an example here where the step value is not there but it goes in opposite way so that is 6 is to 2. now 6 is per and then 2 is C here so it should come from right to left so bigger number is the starting smaller number is the stop it cannot Traverse from left to right so it is going to be empty similar value length of minus 4 is to minus 1. raised to minus 1. see the step value is 1 the starting is smaller number stop is bigger number so minus 1 is per where it should stop that is not included so it should stop here minus 4 is C plus plus so minus 1 minus 2 minus 3 minus 4 from C plus plus it should take until VV but the Step is given as minus 1. it cannot Traverse from right to left in this case this is also going to be empty this is the reason I am repeating that you have to be very careful about the step value now let me give Lang of 0 is to 5 and then step past 2. see there Step past 2 I have given 0 is py so that means the next step is not counted so it will directly jump to the Second Step so that is pi and then it will come to C now C is 2 here then 3 is Left 4 is basic so that is included so 5 is left and then 6 so however 5 itself is not included so it will be stopping at basic itself so now Pi C and basic will be the result so I think now you are clear with this step value also let us have one example reverse with more Super Loop Lang of minus 2 is 2 minus 6 is to minus 2 minus 2 is VB it is going in reverse order as it is minus 2 that step so minus 6 it should stop Java is 6 right so now VB is taken basic is not taken so C plus plus is taken again C is not taken it's supposed to take Java Java is 6 but minus 6 is not included so it will stop at C plus plus itself so only it can take VB and C plus s let us execute so V B and C plus plus hope now these examples make you clear how to slice a string or in case you are asked to give the output of python code given you will be able to get the output I am giving now Lang of Ester is to minus 1. so it gets the output here when nothing is mentioned it is from start again when nothing is mentioned in the stop it is going to be end but the Step value here is 1 so in this case it will start at 1 that is the last element being the step is 1 and then the end value will be the first one that is minus 7. in this case all the elements are reversed so it reads from right to left all the elements per VB basic C plus plus C Java and py will be that the output let us check so in case you need to reverse with the slice you can do this instead of using reverse of function hope now everything is clear for you we will meet in the next class keep practicing and learning thank you