With timestamps:

00:00 - Hi, I'm Ola and this is "Coding is for girls"
00:18 - If we want to learn how to program
00:21 - we should first answer a question: "What is a programming language"?
00:28 - So programming is about giving orders to the computer.
00:33 - But to be understood by the computer we need to first: use the language they understand
00:39 - Second: we need to communicate very, very clearly, because they are not as smart as we are.
00:46 - Programming language is a format to tell your computer what you want.
00:52 - In the real world you could ask your friend:
00:55 - "Could you buy me some sweets, please?"
00:59 - And they'll do that.
01:01 - We also can ask computers to do something for you.
01:04 - But people are smart and they already have a lot of knowledge
01:10 - So your friend who is going to buy you some sweets knows what the "sweets" are
01:16 - they know where to get them: in a shop
01:19 - they know they need a money to do that
01:21 - If you would like to ask the computer about the very same thing
01:25 - you need to tell the computer all these details
01:28 - So things that we - humans - take for granted are not that easy for computers.
01:35 - because we need to specify every single little detail
01:39 - And thing that seems to be very very easy to do is not that easy if you try to implement it.
01:46 - We have a number of different languages and "Python" is one of them.
01:51 - So what you could do with Python?
01:54 - Basically anything that computers can.
01:57 - You could build a website, create a game, build scientific software, do graphics and so on and so on...
02:06 - Sky is a limit here.
02:08 - Python is kind of old and it originated in late 80s when Guido van Rossum started implementing it.
02:15 - It is called after "Monty Python Flying Circus" series.
02:20 - A kind of confusing thing is that programmers talk about "Python" when speaking about two different things.
02:28 - One of them is a language itself. Like English, German, Spanish or Polish.
02:35 - It's a set of rules and words that create a language itself. So it is a way you communicate.
02:41 - Other thing is a Python interpreter.
02:45 - You give orders using programming language
02:49 - And then you need to to translate the code.
02:51 - It's a real challenge, but we are lucky enough because many many people before us did a lot of work
02:58 - and now we don't really need to think about hardware that much.
03:02 - and we can use something more human friendly. Like writing Python programs.
03:11 - Today we'll gonna install Python: the Python interpreter
03:16 - to be able to program in Python language.
03:20 - If you have Mac or one of the distribution of Linux there is a high chance that you have already Python installed.
03:27 - But probably you have one of the older versions.
03:32 - We are interested in most recent version.
03:35 - I'm using Mac, so if you want to install Python on Windows or Linux
03:42 - just check our "Django Girls" tutorial (I will put link below) and follow the instructions.
03:49 - So today the most recent version of Python is Python 3.
03:53 - Ok, so we need to go to the address: python.org/downloads/relaese/python-343
04:05 - Now we will download Python installer.
04:08 - We are using 64-bits / 32-bits installer file.
04:13 - Now double click the file you downloaded and complete installation.
04:18 - So all we need to do is to check if it works
04:22 - Let's open command line.
04:23 - and if you don't know what command line is you should check one of my previous videos about command lines.
04:30 - Now let's type: "python3 --version"
04:34 - It will tell you what's the version of Python 3 we are using.
04:39 - So it's a success - we installed Python!
04:42 - But there is one thing that will be super useful for us and this thing is a "code editor".
04:48 - We need to make sure that we are having good tool to write, edit and save our programs.
04:56 - There are loads, loads and loads of different code editors
05:01 - and in fact many programers are having battles about which code editor is better.
05:08 - Personally I think: whatever works for you and suits you best.
05:12 - But now I will just show you how to install one of the available code editors out there.
05:18 - I decided to install "Atom".
05:20 - Just go to atom.io, download it and install it.
05:27 - You might be tempted to ask: why do you need special code editor?
05:32 - Well, you write your programs in text, so why not to use Word or text-editor?
05:38 - The thing is you need to write your programs in something called "plain text".
05:44 - Word or text-editor produce something called "rich-text".
05:48 - So, apart from the text itself they also know what's the format.
05:53 - For example: what the font was used,  how big it was and so forth.
05:57 - And we cannot have this information in our programs, we just need a text.
06:02 - Other thing that is incredibly useful when you write programs is code highlighting.
06:09 - So all programming languages have special structure, special keywords
06:15 - and your code editor will highlight it for you.
06:18 - So it will be much easier to see what's going on in the program.
06:23 - It looks like that and it's very, very nice feature.
06:27 - Now we are finally ready to write our first Python program.
06:34 - In my next video I will show you very basics of Python.
06:39 - Make sure to subscribe this channel if you don't want to miss any episode and stay tuned.
06:45 - Have a nice day and see you!

Cleaned transcript:

Hi, I'm Ola and this is "Coding is for girls" If we want to learn how to program we should first answer a question "What is a programming language"? So programming is about giving orders to the computer. But to be understood by the computer we need to first use the language they understand Second we need to communicate very, very clearly, because they are not as smart as we are. Programming language is a format to tell your computer what you want. In the real world you could ask your friend "Could you buy me some sweets, please?" And they'll do that. We also can ask computers to do something for you. But people are smart and they already have a lot of knowledge So your friend who is going to buy you some sweets knows what the "sweets" are they know where to get them in a shop they know they need a money to do that If you would like to ask the computer about the very same thing you need to tell the computer all these details So things that we humans take for granted are not that easy for computers. because we need to specify every single little detail And thing that seems to be very very easy to do is not that easy if you try to implement it. We have a number of different languages and "Python" is one of them. So what you could do with Python? Basically anything that computers can. You could build a website, create a game, build scientific software, do graphics and so on and so on... Sky is a limit here. Python is kind of old and it originated in late 80s when Guido van Rossum started implementing it. It is called after "Monty Python Flying Circus" series. A kind of confusing thing is that programmers talk about "Python" when speaking about two different things. One of them is a language itself. Like English, German, Spanish or Polish. It's a set of rules and words that create a language itself. So it is a way you communicate. Other thing is a Python interpreter. You give orders using programming language And then you need to to translate the code. It's a real challenge, but we are lucky enough because many many people before us did a lot of work and now we don't really need to think about hardware that much. and we can use something more human friendly. Like writing Python programs. Today we'll gonna install Python the Python interpreter to be able to program in Python language. If you have Mac or one of the distribution of Linux there is a high chance that you have already Python installed. But probably you have one of the older versions. We are interested in most recent version. I'm using Mac, so if you want to install Python on Windows or Linux just check our "Django Girls" tutorial (I will put link below) and follow the instructions. So today the most recent version of Python is Python 3. Ok, so we need to go to the address python.org/downloads/relaese/python343 Now we will download Python installer. We are using 64bits / 32bits installer file. Now double click the file you downloaded and complete installation. So all we need to do is to check if it works Let's open command line. and if you don't know what command line is you should check one of my previous videos about command lines. Now let's type "python3 version" It will tell you what's the version of Python 3 we are using. So it's a success we installed Python! But there is one thing that will be super useful for us and this thing is a "code editor". We need to make sure that we are having good tool to write, edit and save our programs. There are loads, loads and loads of different code editors and in fact many programers are having battles about which code editor is better. Personally I think whatever works for you and suits you best. But now I will just show you how to install one of the available code editors out there. I decided to install "Atom". Just go to atom.io, download it and install it. You might be tempted to ask why do you need special code editor? Well, you write your programs in text, so why not to use Word or texteditor? The thing is you need to write your programs in something called "plain text". Word or texteditor produce something called "richtext". So, apart from the text itself they also know what's the format. For example what the font was used, how big it was and so forth. And we cannot have this information in our programs, we just need a text. Other thing that is incredibly useful when you write programs is code highlighting. So all programming languages have special structure, special keywords and your code editor will highlight it for you. So it will be much easier to see what's going on in the program. It looks like that and it's very, very nice feature. Now we are finally ready to write our first Python program. In my next video I will show you very basics of Python. Make sure to subscribe this channel if you don't want to miss any episode and stay tuned. Have a nice day and see you!
