With timestamps:

00:09 - I wanted to be a part of Girls Who Code because it was an opportunity for me to try something new.
00:12 - This was a great opportunity for me to get exposed to not only coding but role models and amazing people.
00:22 - So we have a summer program, we call it our Summer Immersion Program.
00:25 - Where we put 20 girls at a time in a technology company and they learn the fundamentals of computer science.
00:31 - They learn coding languages, they learn how to build a mobile app, how to build a website.
00:35 - The last two weeks they actually have their own projects where they design or create something whether it's an algorithm or whether it's an app.
00:44 - It gave me the confidence to believe that I can learn this sort of thing.
00:47 - I think it's made me a lot more confident because I actually know how to use technology now in a way I didn't know how to before.
00:55 - GWC has given me the opportunity to really think about what I want to do. And not just career wise, but how I want to make an impact.
01:08 - It is special to be a girl who codes because you're a part of a new generation of females.
01:13 - I just feel amazing after this program. I know for sure that I want to get into computer science.
01:17 - I just want to impact people and I want to change stereotypes.
01:23 - My favorite thing so far has had to be the sisterhood in Girls Who Code.
01:30 - The one thing that really sticks in my mind about this summer is the amazing bond that has been built between us students.
01:38 - And this bond has been able to create a wonderful environment that breeds confidence, friendship, and most importantly, a lot of fun.
01:48 - I would describe the Girls Who Code Summer Immersion Program as life-changing because it's given me a new perspective.
01:54 - Not only on programming and women in leadership, but also on my life and how I want to live it.
02:04 -  

Cleaned transcript:

I wanted to be a part of Girls Who Code because it was an opportunity for me to try something new. This was a great opportunity for me to get exposed to not only coding but role models and amazing people. So we have a summer program, we call it our Summer Immersion Program. Where we put 20 girls at a time in a technology company and they learn the fundamentals of computer science. They learn coding languages, they learn how to build a mobile app, how to build a website. The last two weeks they actually have their own projects where they design or create something whether it's an algorithm or whether it's an app. It gave me the confidence to believe that I can learn this sort of thing. I think it's made me a lot more confident because I actually know how to use technology now in a way I didn't know how to before. GWC has given me the opportunity to really think about what I want to do. And not just career wise, but how I want to make an impact. It is special to be a girl who codes because you're a part of a new generation of females. I just feel amazing after this program. I know for sure that I want to get into computer science. I just want to impact people and I want to change stereotypes. My favorite thing so far has had to be the sisterhood in Girls Who Code. The one thing that really sticks in my mind about this summer is the amazing bond that has been built between us students. And this bond has been able to create a wonderful environment that breeds confidence, friendship, and most importantly, a lot of fun. I would describe the Girls Who Code Summer Immersion Program as lifechanging because it's given me a new perspective. Not only on programming and women in leadership, but also on my life and how I want to live it.
